Organisation: RSPO
URL: https://rspo.org/
Page Title: global brands event

Latin American Smallholders, Key Global Brands Gather in Peruvian Amazon to Advance Sustainable Palm Oil - Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma RSPO Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. Search… Search only resources Search… Search only resources Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma News Latin American Smallholders, Key Global Brands Gather in Peruvian Amazon to Advance Sustainable Palm Oil 3 July 2025 Share Sustainability representatives from some of the most well-known consumer goods companies in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil — including Blommer Chocolate Company, Edgewell Personal Care, Hershey’s, Grupo Bimbo, the J.M. Smucker Company and Natura — recently visited the Ucayali region in the Peruvian Amazon as part of a tour organised by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). The pioneering tour offered RSPO buyer members a unique field experience and first-hand insight into the sustainable production model adopted by certified smallholders in Peru, Colombia, Mexico, and Honduras — positioning Latin America as a regional leader in best practices. The visit also brought together key actors in Peru’s sustainable palm sector, such as the Association of Palm Growers of Monte Alegre (APROMAN), the Central Committee of Palm Growers of Ucayali (COCEPU), Oleaginosas Amazónicas S.A. (OLAMSA) and Agroindustrias Oleaginosas del Perú S.A. (AOPSA), highlighting the essential role of independent smallholders and local processors in the region’s sustainability efforts. In addition to strengthening ties between producers and buyers, the visit showcased how the Peruvian model has transformed traditional agricultural practices into more sustainable and responsible approaches, resulting in improved productivity and more efficient use of natural resources. Latin America has emerged as the fastest-growing region for RSPO Certified sustainable palm oil production, with 35% of its production certified. Meanwhile, North America represents one of the fastest-growing consumer markets, with 88.5% of its imports covered by certified supply chains. Keep reading Access into prisma Announcements 11 July 2025 Updated Trace Function in prisma Announcements 9 July 2025 Call for Expression of Interest: Independent Investigation of a Complaint Announcements 4 July 2025 Latin American Smallholders, Key Global Brands Gather in Peruvian Amazon to Advance Sustainable Palm Oil News 3 July 2025 RSPO Forum for Members and Certification Bodies 2025: Strengthening Capacities and Building Bridges with RSPO Members News 2 July 2025 From Violence to Prosperity: Cultivating Sustainable Palm Oil in San Pablo, Colombia News 2 July 2025 Palmas de Tumaco: Enduring, Trusting, and Transforming in Colombia’s Pacific Coast News 1 July 2025 Carry Over Credits for Certified Independent Smallholder Groups Announcements 1 July 2025 From the Amazon to the Aisles: Discovering Sustainable Palm Oil in the Heart of Peru Voices 25 June 2025 View all News & events Get Involved Whether you’re an individual or an organisation, you can join the global partnership to make palm oil sustainable. As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil. See how you can influence brands and businesses. More on individual action As a smallholder Discover how using sustainable farming practices through RSPO Certification can increase your yield and more. More on smallholder impact As an organisation Reduce negative social and environmental impacts through producing and sourcing certified sustainable palm oil. More on organisation influence As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. More on member content Member sites MyRSPO prisma Market trends RSEP ACOP Quick links Search members News & events Standards Revision 2022 – 2024 Sustainability College Smallholder Trainer Academy Intermediary Organisation (IMO) Careers Contact Contact us Online media center Complaints portal RSPO Standards and other key documents are available for download on this website. Hard copies are available upon request. © 2025 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. All Rights Reserved. Cookie Policy Privacy Policy