Organisation: RSPO
URL: https://rspo.org/
Page Title: impact stories on environment

An oil palm farmer’s positive impact on the environment - Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma RSPO Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. Search… Search only resources Search… Search only resources Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma IMPACT STORIES An oil palm farmer’s positive impact on the environment schedule 25 October 2022 Share When Suhaili, a smallholder farmer in the Jambi Province of Indonesia, was introduced to RSPO in 2014, his expectations about certification were exceeded. In addition to learning best management practices and being able to expand his palm oil plantation, Suhaili developed a river conservation programme, which benefits his plantation and the local village. He explained that he felt proud to not only just be harvesting crops, but also to be helping improve the environment. To learn more about how RSPO Credits inspired Suhaili to lead a river conservation programme in his village, watch the video below. Keep reading Preserving forests by protecting community rights From deforestation to Forest Positive Deforestation-free palm derived products have a positive environmental, social and economic impact. For some companies, eliminating deforestation from their supply chains isn’t enough. They want to go beyond certification and become ‘forest positive’: using their influence to actively protect and restore forests in their value chains. Waitrose, part of the […] IMPACT STORY From challenge to certification A closer look at certifying 5,000 Sierra Leonean smallholders Q&A with Rosine Nsegbe, Group Sustainability Manager, Goldtree Sierra Leone Ltd Africa has long been heralded as the new frontier of commercial oil palm expansion. The region currently has an estimated 4 million hectares of oil palm production spread across 22 countries and, as an emerging […] IMPACT STORY When an oil palm farmer finds a better way Forty-five-year-old smallholder farmer Sunarno, or “Narno” as he is better known, was unfamiliar with best practices in sustainable palm oil cultivation and the impacts of herbicides, until he was introduced to RSPO in 2012. Since then, Sunarno says he has increased his knowledge and gained more opportunities, resulting in a more positive impact on the […] IMPACT STORY View all stories Get Involved Whether you’re an individual or an organisation, you can join the global partnership to make palm oil sustainable. As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil. See how you can influence brands and businesses. More on individual action As a smallholder Discover how using sustainable farming practices through RSPO Certification can increase your yield and more. More on smallholder impact As an organisation Reduce negative social and environmental impacts through producing and sourcing certified sustainable palm oil. More on organisation influence As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. More on member content Member sites MyRSPO prisma Market trends RSEP ACOP Quick links Search members News & events Standards Revision 2022 – 2024 Sustainability College Smallholder Trainer Academy Intermediary Organisation (IMO) Careers Contact Contact us Online media center Complaints portal RSPO Standards and other key documents are available for download on this website. Hard copies are available upon request. © 2025 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. All Rights Reserved. Cookie Policy Privacy Policy