Organisation: RSPO
URL: https://rspo.org/
Page Title: Landing page

A global partnership to make palm oil sustainable - Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma RSPO Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma A global partnership to make palm oil sustainable View the RSPO Impact highlights Access into prisma Updated Trace Function in prisma 11th RSPO Assurance Forum Call for Expression of Interest: Independent Investigation of a Complaint Latin American Smallholders, Key Global Brands Gather in Peruvian Amazon to Advance Sustainable Palm Oil Latest news Why sustainable palm oil is better than a boycott When grown sustainably, palm oil helps protect the wellbeing of the environment, communities, workers and wildlife. But when it’s grown unsustainably, palm oil production can be destructive and damaging. How are we enabling the positive impact of sustainable palm oil? More about sustainable palm oil How RSPO helps At the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), we have a simple aim: a sustainable palm oil industry. We’re transforming the sector by bringing together stakeholders across the supply chain to develop and implement global standards for producing and sourcing certified sustainable palm oil. Who we are Our global impact Sustainable palm oil has a positive impact on the planet and people. By setting the environmental and social standards for certified sustainable palm oil, RSPO Members are making sure this impact is as far-reaching as possible. View Impact Report 2024 here. More about our impact CERTIFIED AREAS: 5017454 HECTARES ESTIMATED PRODUCTION OF SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL: 13420701 TONNES COMPANIES WITH SUPPLY CHAIN CERTIFICATES: 4161 COMPANIES FACILITIES WITH SUPPLY CHAIN CERTIFICATES: 7099 FACILITIES Impact stories Transforming the palm oil sector involves everyone in the industry. More than three million smallholders and small-scale farmers make a living from palm oil globally. Equally, its production and distribution involves some of the world’s largest international businesses. Here you can see the impact we’re having across the sector. View more impact stories From challenge to certification IMPACT STORIES Up close with the Sumatran tiger IMPACT STORIES An oil palm farmer’s positive impact on the environment IMPACT STORIES Photo Credit: RSPO/Jonathan Perugia Get Involved Whether you’re an individual or an organisation, you can join the global partnership to make palm oil sustainable. As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil. See how you can influence brands and businesses. More on individual action As a smallholder Discover how using sustainable farming practices through RSPO Certification can increase your yield and more. More on smallholder impact As an organisation Reduce negative social and environmental impacts through producing and sourcing certified sustainable palm oil. More on organisation influence As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. More on member content CALL FOR COMMENTS AND CONSULTATIONS Please click through to find all calls for public comments, announcements and consultations on the below: Member Applications Principles & Criteria Public Announcements New Planting Procedure Public Comments Member sites MyRSPO prisma Market trends RSEP ACOP Quick links Search members News & events Standards Revision 2022 – 2024 Sustainability College Smallholder Trainer Academy Intermediary Organisation (IMO) Careers Contact Contact us Online media center Complaints portal RSPO Standards and other key documents are available for download on this website. Hard copies are available upon request. © 2025 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. All Rights Reserved. Cookie Policy Privacy Policy