Organisation: RSPO
URL: https://rspo.org/
Page Title: standards implementation

2024 Standards Implementation - Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma RSPO Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. Search… Search only resources Search… Search only resources Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma As an organisation 2024 Standards Implementation Our standards Development process Supporting documents NI Public Consultations Standards Revision 2022 – 2024 2024 Standards Implementation SCC Standard Review 2025 – 2026 Rollout process Following the adoption of the 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria and the 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard at the 21st RSPO General Assembly on 13 November 2024, the revised 2024 RSPO Standards shall become effective 12 months following their adoption, (13 November 2025). To support the rollout and implementation of the 2024 RSPO Standards ahead of their effective date, information on the processes and activities connected to the 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria (P&C) and the 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder (ISH) Standard is available below. This section of the website will be regularly updated to reflect the latest status and information regarding these processes and activities. The expected timeline and target deadlines for the supporting processes and activities are as follows. Further details on each process or activity are provided below. For any questions on the 2024 Standards Rollout and Implementation, or to provide any feedback, suggestions, recommendations or issues regarding the revised 2024 RSPO Standards or revised RSPO Certification Systems for the P&C and RSPO ISH Standard, please email [email protected] To register any concerns or complaints regarding the development and maintenance of RSPO Standards, please email: [email protected] *Click titles in orange to jump to associated topics Standards Documents | Certification Systems Document | Supplementary/Derivative Documents | National Interpretations | Socialisation | Trainings Standards Documents Following the adoption of the 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria and the 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard at the 21st RSPO General Assembly on 13 November 2024, the consolidated versions of the Standards documents (with the text as adopted by GA) can be found below. The documents are currently only available in English. Title Filetype Language Modified description 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria (Consolidated, text adopted by GA) pdf en 24 Dec 2024 description 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard (Consolidated, text adopted by GA) pdf en 24 Dec 2024 The Standards documents are in the process of final design and translation to five other languages – Bahasa Indonesia, Bahasa Malaysia, Spanish, French and Thai. The final design and translations are expected to be completed by end-June 2025. Please note that as per Section 2.1.2 of the 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria and Section 2.1.1 of the 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard (Translation Accuracy Disclaimer), the translation accuracy of the 2024 RSPO Standards into languages other than English is a priority, but is neither guaranteed nor implied. Any discrepancies or differences in translations are not binding nor enforceable; in such cases, the official English version of the RSPO Standard shall prevail. Annex 5 of the 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria and Annex 3 of the 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard are currently in development. These annexes are expected to support implementation of the 2024 RSPO Standards with interpretation and guidance for each criterion/indicator in an informative manner. Development of Annex 5 and Annex 3 is expected to be completed by end-June 2025. RSPO shall keep all members and stakeholders informed on the progress of the development and endorsement of these annexes. Certification Systems document The RSPO Certification Systems for the Principles and Criteria (P&C) and RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard are supporting documents of RSPO Standards, which outline the requirements that shall be followed by accredited Certification Bodies and auditors when assessing compliance against RSPO Standards (or applicable National Interpretations of the RSPO Standards, see below) for certification. As part of the RSPO Standards Review 2022-2024, the RSPO Certification Systems for the Principles and Criteria (P&C) and RSPO Independent Smallholder (ISH) Standard were revised in parallel with the RSPO Standards. Finalisation of the revised Certification Systems document is currently ongoing. The timeline below outlines the expected schedule and target deadlines for completion/endorsement. Following endorsement of the revised RSPO Certification Systems for the P&C and RSPO ISH Standard, there shall be a formal transition period to support change management and implementation of new/amended requirements of the revised document by accredited Certification Bodies. This transition period shall be aligned with that of the revised 2024 RSPO Standards, to be effective on the same date (13 November 2025). Expected Timeline for the Finalisation of the RSPO Certification Systems for Principles and Criteria (P&C) and RSPO Independent Smallholder (ISH) Standard Steps Month Draft refinement March 2025 Endorsement by the RSPO Standards Standing Committee (SSC) May 2025 Publication, translations and proofreading June 2025 Supplementary/Derivative Documents To support the implementation of, and compliance with, the RSPO Standards, RSPO has developed a library of supplementary and derivatives documents that support general or specific aspects/criteria/indicators of the RSPO Principles and Criteria (P&C) and the RSPO Independent Smallholder (ISH) Standard. The following is a list of existing or new supplementary/derivative documents of the 2024 RSPO P&C and the 2024 RSPO ISH Standard that are currently effective, are to be updated/developed, or are in active development. The status of each document is as of 13 November 2024. This list shall be updated regularly to denote the latest status of each document. RSPO aims to complete the development of as many of these documents as possible, for endorsement by the RSPO Standards Standing Committee (SSC) and for implementation by members, within the 12-month period prior to the 2024 RSPO Standards becoming effective. In the event that a supplementary/derivative document is not able to be developed within the 12-month period, RSPO shall indicate an expected completion date in this list and, if necessary, initiate the development of an Interim Measure to support compliance. List of supplementary/derivative documents of the 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria Document Status Progress RSPO Certification Systems for Principles and Criteria (P&C) and Independent Smallholder (ISH) Standard In development The draft has been developed, currently being deliberated by the ASC. RSPO Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) Guidance In development NEW. To be developed by the HRDD SubGroup, under the RSPO Human Rights Working Group (HRWG). The guidance development is in progress. Annex 4 – List of RSPO-recognised Human Rights Due Diligence methodologies for compliance to Indicator 1.3.1 To be developed NEW. To be developed by the HRDD SubGroup, under the RSPO HRWG. RSPO Policy on the Protection of Human Rights Defenders, Whistleblowers, Complainants and Community Spokespersons To be updated Ongoing revision of the current RSPO Policy on the Protection of Human Rights Defenders, Whistleblowers, Complainants and Community Spokespersons 2018. RSPO Prevailing Wage Calculation Procedure In development Presented to RSPO Living Wage Task Force (LWTF) on 10 April. LWTF members have provided comments and minor revisions have been made. Outstanding comments will be discussed at the 25 June meeting. RSPO Guidance on Calculating Prevailing Wages Effective* Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) Guide Effective* Guidance on Child Rights for Palm Oil Producers Effective* RSPO Practical Guidance on Gender Inclusion and Compliance to the 2018 P&C and 2019 ISH Standard Effective* Guidance for the Repayment of Recruitment Fees and Related Costs In development To be developed by the RSPO Human Rights Working Group (HRWG). SSC has approved the TOR. The guidance development is in progress. Guidance on Peat Inventory for RSPO Reporting To be updated To be updated under the RSPO Biodiversity and High Conservation Value Working Group (BHVCWG). RSPO Peat Inventory Template Effective* RSPO Drainability Assessment Procedure To be updated To be updated under the RSPO Biodiversity and High Conservation Value Working Group (BHVCWG). PalmGHG Calculator Manual In development Version 1 has been reviewed by GHGTF on 26 Feb 2025, Version 2 in the drafting stage for discussion in the next GHGTF meeting. GHG Assessment Procedure for New Development In development Review started at the end of April 2025 and review will be done with GHGTF in the 6th meeting in mid July. This is in line with the NPP review process. RSPO Guidance for Land Use Change Analysis (LUCA) To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG. Part of RaCP. Interpretation of Indicator 7.7.1 (C) To be updated Based on Annex 5 of the 2018 RSPO P&C, to be updated for validity, under the RSPO BHVCWG Remediation and Compensation Procedure (RaCP) To be updated RaCP v2, to be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG. A workshop has been conducted in April 2025. Further discussions with CTF2/BHCVWG on next steps. RSPO Peat Audit Guidance To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHCWG RSPO Manual on BMPs for Management and Rehabilitation of Peatlands Effective* RSPO Manual on BMPs for Existing Oil Palm Cultivation on Peat Effective* RSPO Manual on BMPs for the Management and Rehabilitation of Riparian Reserves Effective* RSPO Drainability Assessment Submission Checklist To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG RSPO Fire Report Form To be updated To be updated (RSPO Secretariat) RSPO List of Hazardous Pesticides (ref: Indicator 7.1.2) To be developed To be updated (RSPO Secretariat) Pesticide Usage Record Template To be developed To be updated (RSPO Secretariat) Drainability Assessment Procedure Levelling Template To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG List of Allometric Equations for Different Vegetation Types and Regions To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG RSPO List of Invasive Species (ref: Indicator 7.1.6 and 7.1.7) To be developed To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG RSPO Manual on Best Management Practices (BMPs) for Steep Terrain Conservation and Management In development To be finalised under the RSPO BHCVWG RSPO Best Management Practices (BMPs) for Soil To be developed NEW. To be developed by the RSPO BHVCWG RSPO Guidance on Changes in HCV Conditions and Status To be developed NEW. To be developed by the RSPO BHVCWG Guide on High Carbon Stock Approach Requirements for the RSPO Effective* Compilation of BMPs to Reduce Total Emissions from Palm Oil Production Effective* Guidance on Map Submission for Land Use Change Analysis (LUCA) for Independent Smallholders To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG High Forest Cover Countries (HFCC) Procedure To be developed To be developed by the RSPO BHVCWG at a later stage. RSPO New Planting Procedure (NPP) In development Minor change, Secretariat to take this on. RSPO Management System Requirements and Guidance for Group Certification of FFB Production Effective* Note: This document may be revised as part of the upcoming SCC Standard revision RSPO Supply Chain Certification (SCC) Standard In development The second Task Force meeting will take place in July 2025 to discuss the proposals for change. RSPO Rules on Market Communications and Claims Effective* * Documents listed with an Effective status are currently endorsed supplementary/derivative documents supporting the 2018 RSPO P&C that remain valid for the implementation/compliance of the 2024 RSPO P&C. However, these documents may undergo a minor, non-substantive update to align its content e.g., with revised numbering or references of the 2024 RSPO P&C. List of supplementary/derivative documents of 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard Document Status Progress Minimum required Best Management Practices (BMPs) for Independent Smallholders To be developed NEW. To be developed by the RSPO Smallholder Standing Committee (SHSC) RSPO Simplified Guide on Free, Prior, and Informed Consent for Independent Smallholders In development To be finalised by the RSPO HRWG Guidance on Child Rights for Smallholders and Group Managers Effective* Guidance Document on the Simplified High Conservation Value (HCV) Approach for Smallholders in the RSPO – Introduction Document (Phases 1 and 2) To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG Guidance Document for Smallholders on Managing High Conservation Values (HCVs) in Established Oil Palm Plantations – Existing Plantings (Phases 3 and 4) To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG Guidance Document on the Simplified High Conservation Value (HCV) Approach for Smallholders in the RSPO – HCV Procedures for New Plantings (Phases 3 and 4) To be updated To be updated under the RSPO BHVCWG Guidance for ISH Group Manager Independent Smallholder – Land Use Risk Identification (IS-LURI) To be updated To be updated under the RSPO Independent Smallholder No Deforestation Task Force (IS-NDTF) Forest Protection Approach (FPA) In development To be developed under the RSPO IS-NDTF RSPO Remediation and Compensation Procedure (RaCP) process for smallholders To be updated RaCP v2, to be developed under the RSPO BHVCWG and CTF2 Simplified GHG Assessment Procedure for New Development (Reference Tool for Smallholders) In development High-level review has been done. Potentially, only minor updates are required to be in line with the “GHG Assessment Procedure for New Development” for the RSPO P&C. Review will be done with GHGTF at the 6th meeting in mid July. This is also conducted in line with the NPP review process. RSPO Smallholder Best Management Practices Manual for Existing Oil Palm Cultivation on Peat Effective* RSPO ISH Flood Risk Assessment Template Effective* Simplified Guide Management and Rehabilitation of Riparian Reserves Effective* * Documents listed with an Effective status are currently endorsed supplementary/derivative documents supporting the 2019 RSPO ISH Standard that remain valid for the implementation/compliance of the 2024 RSPO ISH Standard. However, these documents may undergo a minor, non-substantive update to align content e.g., with revised numbering or references of the 2024 RSPO ISH Standard. National Interpretations RSPO encourages all palm oil producing countries to comply with the general 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria (P&C) and 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder (ISH) Standard, but allows for members in a specific country to initiate a National Interpretation (NI) process that contextualises the 2024 RSPO P&C and ISH Standard at a national level. Until an NI has been developed for a specific country and endorsed by the RSPO Board of Governors (BoG), the applicable RSPO Standard in that country is the general 2024 RSPO P&C and/or the 2024 RSPO ISH Standard. The NI process shall be led and managed by RSPO Members. An NI process may be initiated through a formal request addressed to the RSPO Secretariat, and written approval from RSPO is required to proceed. A NI process must be: Initiated within 24 months of the formal adoption of the general 2024 RSPO P&C and the 2024 RSPO ISH Standard (before 13 November 2026) Developed within 36 months of the formal adoption of the general 2024 RSPO P&C and the 2024 RSPO ISH Standard (before 13 November 2027) RSPO recommends that NI processes (especially for countries with existing NIs of the 2018 RSPO P&C and/or the 2019 RSPO ISH Standard) complete development within 12 months of the formal adoption of the general 2024 RSPO P&C and the 2024 RSPO ISH Standard (before 13 November 2025) As stated in Section 9 of the RSPO Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for Standard Setting, NIs must be fully consistent with the general RSPO Standards. RSPO certificate holders must be fully compliant with the new version of an NI within 12 months of the NI being endorsed by the BoG. Simplified step-by-step process for National Interpretations Phase Action NI Task Force (NI TF) Formation The member(s) chooses to begin the NI process, and send a formal request to initiate the NI process for a country to RSPO ([email protected]). Formal acknowledgement of the request to initiate the NI shall be required. The initiating member(s) shall send a request to RSPO ([email protected]) to post an announcement/call for expression of interest (EOI) in joining the NI TF on the RSPO website. The EOI shall be valid for at least 20 calendar days, with a recommendation of 30 calendar days. The initiating member(s) shall form the NI TF with balanced representation and membership requirements, and request written approval by the RSPO to proceed with the NI TF by sending an email to the RSPO Secretariat ([email protected]). Note: If the Terms of Reference (ToR) for the NI TF does not meet all the requirements stated in the RSPO SOP (especially in terms of balanced representation), endorsement from the RSPO Standards Standing Committee (SSC) shall be required. Developing the NI The NI TF shall develop the draft NI according to the process and content requirements stated in the RSPO SOP, and submit the draft NI to RSPO prior to starting the public consultation process. RSPO shall provide written approval or comments for the draft and the NI TF shall revise the draft NI accordingly. Public Consultation The NI TF shall inform RSPO of an intended public consultation, at least 30 days before the public consultation period commences and submit all the draft NI documents for comments. Draft NI documents shall be submitted in English and/or appropriate national languages. RSPO shall upload the draft NI documents on the RSPO website and the NI TF shall upload the draft NI documents on a country-based website. The public consultation shall be carried out for at least 60 calendar days. The NI TF shall document all comments and make amendments accordingly. Revising the NI The NI TF shall submit the draft NI (with public consultation comments incorporated) and process report to RSPO, which shall review, and issue corrective action requests (if any) and the NI TF shall make those corrections accordingly. RSPO shall submit the revised and completed NI documents to the RSPO Standards Standing Committee (SSC) for approval, or to issue corrective action requests (if any). Endorsement Upon approval of the NI documents, the SSC shall forward the documents to the RSPO BoG for endorsement. The RSPO BoG shall review the NI documents for potential endorsement. Publication Upon endorsement, the NI TF shall proceed with the publication of the NI documents. The finalised copy shall be submitted to RSPO to be uploaded on the RSPO website. NI Process completed National Interpretations Templates and Guidance RSPO Standard Operating Procedure for Standard Setting and Review 2020 (Revised) 2024 RSPO Standards NI TF ToR Template 2024 RSPO P&C NI Editing Template (Draft) [to be available soon] 2024 RSPO ISH NI Editing Template (Draft) [to be available soon] RSPO NI Process Report Template RSPO NI Process Checklist RSPO NI Summary Slide Template (Guidance) NI Reference Notes* [to be available soon] * To assist members, to support NI TFs, and to optimise the development timeline for all National Interpretations, the RSPO Secretariat shall develop NI Reference Notes summarising and indicating changes agreed upon and made in previous NIs of the 2018 RSPO P&C or the 2019 RSPO ISH Standard. Development of the NI Reference Notes shall be prioritised for countries that have already initiated a NI process for the 2024 RSPO Standards. List of initiated National Interpretations of the 2024 RSPO P&C and 2024 RSPO ISH Standards No Country Status Secretariat Focal Points 1 Indonesia (P&C) Ongoing [email protected] 2 Indonesia (ISH) Ongoing [email protected] 3 India (ISH) Ongoing [email protected] 4 Malaysia (P&C) Ongoing [email protected] 5 Malaysia (ISH) Ongoing [email protected] 6 Papua New Guinea and Solomon Island (P&C) Ongoing [email protected] 7 Thailand (P&C and ISH) Ongoing [email protected] 8 Ghana (P&C and ISH) Started [email protected] 9 Nigeria (P&C and ISH) Started [email protected] *This table is to be updated regularly. Socialisation of revised Standards To support RSPO Members and accredited Certification Bodies in preparing for implementation of, and compliance with, the 2024 RSPO Principles and Criteria and the 2024 RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard, RSPO is planning continuous engagement activities (physical and virtual) in 2025 and beyond for members and auditors, to socialise the changes and requirements of the 2024 RSPO Standards. RSPO will be publishing a list of confirmed engagement activities (including CB Forums, RSPO events, etc.) once an initial calendar for 2025 has been developed and confirmed. The calendar will be regularly updated. Country Date Medium Activities Indonesia 18 March 2025 Physical Collaborated with RSPO member socialising on Principle 6 of 2024 RSPO P&C Standard Indonesia 16 January 2025 Physical 2024 RSPO ISH Standard Socialization Thailand 30 January 2025 Physical 2024 RSPO ISH Standard Introduction to Stakeholders Ghana 8-10 April 2025 Physical P&C and ISH 2024 Standards Roadshow Cameroon 24-27 March 2025 Physical P&C and ISH 2024 Standards Roadshow Cameroon 3-5 February 2025 Physical Smallholder Group Training Gabon 18-21 March 2025 Physical P&C and ISH 2024 Standards Roadshow Guatemala 24 January 2025 Online 2024 RSPO P&C Standard training focused on Principle 7 Colombia 12 December 2024 Physical Meetings with P&C Accredited Certification Bodies Training RSPO is developing the RSPO Learning Centre and updating the training curriculum to reflect the requirements of the revised 2024 RSPO Standards and the revised Certification Systems document. More information will be made available and regularly updated in this section, once timelines and processes have been finalised. Size: Modified: language Language () preview Preview file_download Download close Member sites MyRSPO prisma Market trends RSEP ACOP Quick links Search members News & events Standards Revision 2022 – 2024 Sustainability College Smallholder Trainer Academy Intermediary Organisation (IMO) Careers Contact Contact us Online media center Complaints portal RSPO Standards and other key documents are available for download on this website. Hard copies are available upon request. © 2025 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. All Rights Reserved. Cookie Policy Privacy Policy