Organisation: RSPO
URL: https://rspo.org/
Page Title: sustainability college

Sustainability College - Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma RSPO Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. Search… Search only resources Search… Search only resources Why sustainable palm oil? Who we are Our impact Get involved expand_more As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil with your weekly shop. See how you can influence brands and businesses. As a smallholder Discover what RSPO Certification could do for you and your family – and the land and wildlife around your smallholding. As an organisation As well as supporting your growth, becoming a member of RSPO could help create a sustainable future for communities, employees, wildlife and the environment. As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. NEXT20 Search members Standards rollout News & events Resources Contact MyRSPO prisma Sustainability College Sustainability College is growing. With the aim of making RSPO Standards simple to understand, Sustainability College is undergoing a revamp to better serve our global community of RSPO Members. Can I still access Sustainability College content? Yes, you can access all Sustainability College videos on our YouTube channel: Playlist of all courses Playlists by course: Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) Labour Rights Social Accountability Role of Certification Remediation and Compensation Procedure (RaCP) High Conservation Value (HCV) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Best Management Practices (BMPs) for Existing Oil Palm Cultivation on Peat I want to know when RSPO’s new Learning & Training content will be ready. Please provide your email address and we will notify you via email when content is live. Notify Me I want to keep up-to-date with RSPO! Follow our social media channels for the latest news! LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube I have other questions or feedback. Please email our Training Team. Get Involved Whether you’re an individual or an organisation, you can join the global partnership to make palm oil sustainable. As an individual Take a stand for sustainable palm oil. See how you can influence brands and businesses. More on individual action As a smallholder Discover how using sustainable farming practices through RSPO Certification can increase your yield and more. More on smallholder impact As an organisation Reduce negative social and environmental impacts through producing and sourcing certified sustainable palm oil. More on organisation influence As a member Quickly access resources, news and content that is important to you. More on member content Member sites MyRSPO prisma Market trends RSEP ACOP Quick links Search members News & events Standards Revision 2022 – 2024 Sustainability College Smallholder Trainer Academy Intermediary Organisation (IMO) Careers Contact Contact us Online media center Complaints portal RSPO Standards and other key documents are available for download on this website. Hard copies are available upon request. © 2025 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. All Rights Reserved. Cookie Policy Privacy Policy