Organisation: PEFC International
URL: https://www.pefc.org/
Page Title: FullContent

Page Title: Landing page
Webpage Title: PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: PEFC - your partner for the EUDR Supporting PEFC chain of custody certified companies in demonstrating their compliance with the EUDR. PEFC RED II certification Providing companies with a tool to demonstrate their compliance with the RED II sustainability and greenhouse gas saving criteria. Ready for sustainability reporting? Discover how PEFC certification supports your sustainability journey. The PEFC Annual Review is out The Annual Review gives an insight into the work and some of the key achievements of PEFC and our partners in 2024. Why forests are important Forests play a critical role for the global environment, population and economy. They alleviate the effects of climate change and natural disasters, and represent some of the richest biological areas on Earth. Our approach At PEFC, we care for forests globally and locally. We work to protect our forests by promoting sustainable forest management through certification. Our collective impact Through our projects and campaigns, we collaborate with local and global organizations to promote the growth of sustainable forest management and forest certification. Sustainable Development Goals PEFC contributes to achieving the SDGs as we work towards unlocking the full potential of forests for a sustainable world. The benefits of forests Forests in everyday life Threats to forests What is sustainable forest management? What is certification? Protecting forest globally and locally Making certification work for everybody Our projects Our campaigns What you can do Look for the PEFC label One of the simplest ways you can help protect our forests is to look for the PEFC label on products. Buy PEFC-certified products We need to use our forests, but we must do so sustainably. If there is one thing you can do, it is to buy PEFC-certified products. Get certified Whether you're a forest owner or company within the forest supply chain, get PEFC certified and help protect the world's forests. Contribute to standards Help us to ensure our PEFC standards, internationally and nationally, meet your expectations. Become a member Demonstrate your commitment and activate your support to forests and PEFC by becoming an international stakeholder member. Donate Your support is an important contribution to the long-term sustainability of our forests. 

Page Title: sustainability reporting
Webpage Title: Ready for sustainability reporting? - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: Ready for sustainability reporting? As sustainability reporting increasingly takes centre stage, driven by regulations and stakeholder expectations, companies are required to not only meet but exceed the evolving non-financial reporting standards. The PEFC certifications equip companies to meet these expectations, proving their commitment to responsible forest management and ethical sourcing. PEFC is your partner sustainability reporting aligning across 14 key topics. Trusted globally, our certification helps you manage, and report on nature and social performances—supporting sustainable forest management that positively impact the environment, society, and corporate governance. How PEFC supports your sustainability journey Download our brochure Get our brochure to learn more about how PEFC helps companies achieve sustainable success. 

Page Title: certification for small companies
Webpage Title: Certification for small companies - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: PEFC group certification is our practical solution to make PEFC chain of custody certification feasible for small companies. We are aware that obtaining PEFC chain of custody certification requires resources and effort. For companies with limited resources and capacity to implement a chain of custody system, this can be a barrier to certification. That is why we developed group certification - our practical solution to make chain of custody certification feasible for typically small companies. Group certification is a form of multi-site certification - the certificate holder is the group entity and the small companies are the group members. The group entity can be any legal entity that operates the group management system. Quite often consultants or trade associations with a broad network in the processing sectors take on the role of group entity. The group members are independent of each other and can be from completely different sectors. It is, for example, possible that a group certificate includes sawmills, printers and furniture manufacturers. The only conditions are the size limitations for the individual group members and that they are located in the same country. Benefits for your company Simplified implementation The group entity is the certification consultant for the group members. They are responsible for representing the group certificate in the certification process and performing the internal audits. They are also required to provide all the necessary information and guidance to the group members. How to join a group certificate When you want to obtain PEFC chain of custody certification through group certification, there is no need to contact a certification body directly. Simply contact a group manager and they will guide you through the entire process and perform an internal audit of your company. 

Page Title: certification services
Webpage Title: Certification services - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: PEFC chain of custody certification enables you to demonstrate your sustainable sourcing of forest and tree based products to your customers. It also provides you with a variety of advantages that help the environment, people, and your business, such as access to new markets and compliance with legislation. Alongside the many advantages PEFC certification brings to your company, it also entitles you to a variety of practical tools, materials, and services from PEFC, both nationally and internationally. Access to the PEFC Label Generator As a PEFC chain of custody certified company, you have access to the PEFC Label Generator – our online tool that enables you to create PEFC labels quickly and easily. The Label Generator can produce labels in over 30 languages, with more languages added all the time. 

Page Title: certification for companies with multiple locations
Webpage Title: Certification for companies with multiple locations - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: PEFC multi-site certification enables you to achieve PEFC chain of custody certification for all locations in one certification, without the need to certify each separate location individually. This is why we developed PEFC multi-site certification, enabling all the different locations (or “sites”) of a company where PEFC chain of custody activities are carried out, to be covered by a single multi-site certificate. The sites can even be located in more than one country. Your central office has several responsibilities. Two of the most important ones are to provide necessary guidance and information to the sites, and to operate an internal auditing programme. The external audit of the multi-site certificate covers a sample of all sites covered by the certificate. 

Page Title: why get certified
Webpage Title: Why get certified? - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: PEFC chain of custody certification enables you to demonstrate your legal and sustainable sourcing of forest products to your customers. More and more companies along the timber value chain are looking to demonstrate that the forest-based materials they are using come from legal and sustainable sources. Some are doing so in response to legislation and regulatory requirements, others realize the benefits of delivering sustainability assurances on products to address environmental, social and ethical concerns. PEFC chain of custody certification is designed to allow you to demonstrate compliance with such legislative requirements, giving you access to these influential markets. 

Page Title: promote your sustainable material
Webpage Title: Promote your sustainable material - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: If you are sourcing PEFC-certified products, you need to tell your customers about it! You can do this through the PEFC label. As a brand owner or retailer, there are several options for how you can use the PEFC label. If you procure PEFC-certified finished products and sell these finished products directly to consumers, without manipulating them in any way, you can use the PEFC label indirectly on-product for promotional purposes. 

Page Title: speed up supplier verification
Webpage Title: Speed up supplier verification - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: Improve efficiency with PEFC International’s advanced Application Programming Interface (API), tailored to suit your organisation’s data needs and budget. Designed for seamless integration, our API offers a time-saving solution to automate the previously manual task of certification verification, ensuring secure and swift access to certified data. 

Page Title: source pefc certified products
Webpage Title: Source PEFC-certified products - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: PEFC-certified material is available globally. In fact, many of the forest-based products you are procuring may already feature PEFC certification and only a few simple steps will be needed for the final product to carry the PEFC label. First, develop and implement a procurement policy to include your preference for PEFC-certified materials. Contact your suppliers and ask them if they have a certificate, or search for them on our database. 

Page Title: get certified
Webpage Title: Get certified - PEFC - Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Webpage Contents: Forest certification is a voluntary, market-based instrument, implemented through two separate but linked processes: sustainable forest management certification and chain of custody certification. PEFC chain of custody certification provides independent verified assurance that the certified forest-based material contained in a product originates from sustainably managed forests. It enables you to demonstrate your legal and sustainable sourcing of forest products to your customers and provides you with a variety of advantages that help the environment, people, and your bottom line.