Organisation: Textile Exchange
URL: https://textileexchange.org/
Page Title: FullContent

Page Title: Home Page - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: We’re driving meaningful change right from the start of the supply chain. Most of the materials used for fashion, textile, and apparel today come from farms, forests, or fossil fuels. Textile Exchange exists to ensure the industry treats these resources with respect. Our purpose is to build a global fiber and materials production model that positively impacts our planet. At the heart of our strategy is the goal of helping the fashion, textile, and apparel industry to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that come from fiber and raw materials production by 45% by 2030. We call it Climate+. Soil puts food on our plates, purifies the water, and is the beginning of all material production. We’re striving to keep it healthy. Like food and the air we breathe, material production depends on healthy ecosystems which need a wide variety of animals, plants, and microorganisms. That’s why we’re supporting biodiversity. The basis of life as we know it, water, needs to be treated as the precious resource it is. We work to make sure it is used responsibly and put back safely into our systems. We help the industry to understand some of the common sustainability challenges that come with producing popular fibers and raw materials. Then, we work with stakeholders all along the supply chain to find ways to overcome them at scale. We’ve developed a set of robust standards to give the industry a way to authenticate their sustainability claims from raw material to final product. They fill the gaps in existing guidelines and verification tools, and we regularly adapt and upgrade them to meet evolving needs. We recognize that everyone’s journey will be different, so we provide the industry with tools, resources, and initiatives that mean everyone, from farmers to suppliers and brands, can find the next step to take on their sustainability pathway.

Page Title: Chain of Custody - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: Chain of custody ensures that claims about the fiber content in a final product, such as “organically grown” or “recycled,” are accurate. It’s important because raw materials often travel all around the world to be spun, dyed, woven, cut, and sewn. By having your product certified to a third-party content claim standard like ours, you can make sure that at every stage along this journey, all necessary measures have been taken to ensure that what goes in, comes out. The Content Claim Standard (CCS) is our chain of custody standard, and it underpins our whole standard system. According to the CCS, certification is needed at every stage of the supply chain. Brands benefit from increased traceability, ensuring you “get what you paid for,” and it shows you’re pursuing real and meaningful change.

Page Title: Labeling & Standards Claims - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: Once you’ve started to source certified products, you might want to tell the world about it, both to show your commitment to climate action and to inspire others to do the same. Anytime you mention our standards, it’s important to follow our policies for claims and labeling. The Standards Claims Policy clearly outlines these different categories of claims, each of which has defined eligibility requirements and guidelines to follow. Commitment claims may be made after a company has registered a commitment to one or more of our standards through our online form. Assured claims are only for organizations or products that have met the requirements of an “assurance process.” Informational statements are ready-to-use messages that describe a relevant standard. Product-related claims may be made on final products being sold to consumers or products sold between businesses in the supply chain.

Page Title: Responsible Alpaca Standard (RAS) - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: The Responsible Alpaca Standard (RAS) is a voluntary standard that requires all sites, from alpaca farms through to the seller in the final business-to-business transaction, to be certified. RAS farmers and ranchers are evaluated against animal welfare, land management, and social requirements set in the standard. The standard aims to improve the welfare of alpacas and the ecosystems in which they are raised. We’re currently finalizing the pilot version 1.0 of the unified standard, to be released in 2025. The criteria for progressive agricultural practices that are better for animals and the land help to verify that alpaca wool in a given product comes from farms that take a progressive approach to land management and respect the Five Freedoms of animal welfare.

Page Title: Biosynthetics - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: Biosynthetics have performance and technical qualities that make them an effective replacement for traditional synthetics. They can be wholly or partly derived from natural, renewable sources such as corn, sugar beet, sugarcane, wheat, and more, and can be a more climate-friendly alternative to their fossil-based counterparts. However, we need to consider biosynthetics carefully if they’re to have a positive impact on people and the planet without having a negative effect elsewhere. We support the fashion and textiles industry in switching to fibers and materials that have better environmental and social outcomes than their conventional alternatives.

Page Title: Recycled Claim Standard (RCS) + Global Recycled Standard (GRS) - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: The Recycled Claim Standard (RCS) and Global Recycled Standard (GRS) set the criteria for the third-party certification of recycled materials and chain of custody. The GRS includes a higher (50%) minimum recycled content percentage and additional social and environmental requirements related to processing and chemical use. The RCS and GRS have three main objectives: Align definitions of “recycled” across different applications, verify recycled content in products, and give brands and consumers a means to make informed buying decisions.

Page Title: Materials Impact Explorer - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: The Materials Impact Explorer (MIE) is a first-of-its-kind risk assessment tool designed to help brands and retailers to understand the on-the-ground risks and opportunities of the raw materials they source. The tool provides tailored recommendations on mitigating risk, reducing environmental impact, and supporting local and global sustainability initiatives. It draws from over 160 datasets to provide a holistic and detailed view of risk, analyzing the sourcing country of origin and if the fiber or raw material is certified to a standards system.

Page Title: Join the Leather Impact Accelerator - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: The Leather Impact Accelerator is a set of tools that help the industry address the core challenges it faces around leather production, from farm to finished product. It establishes minimum social, environmental, and animal welfare requirements in the leather supply chain, incentivizes farmers and leather producers to meet them, gives brands a way to reward those that do, and encourages transparency along the way.

Page Title: Responsible Mohair Standard (RMS) - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: The Responsible Mohair Standard (RMS) is a voluntary standard that requires all sites, from farms through to the seller in the final business-to-business transaction, to be certified. RMS farmers and ranchers are evaluated against animal welfare, land management, and social requirements set in the standard. The criteria help to verify that mohair in a given product comes from farms that take a progressive approach to land management and respect the Five Freedoms of animal welfare.

Page Title: Industry Progress - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: We can’t be confident of reaching our Climate+ goal if we don’t track our progress. That’s why we’ve developed tools that help us pinpoint where change has been made so far and orientate our actions to where we need to go next. The Climate+ Dashboard tracks industry progress toward our Climate+ target, looking at fiber and material production data and calculating associated GHG emissions and water impacts.

Page Title: Responsible Wool Standard (RWS) - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: The Responsible Wool Standard (RWS) is a voluntary standard that requires all sites, from wool farms to the seller in the final business-to-business transaction, to be certified. RWS farmers and ranchers are evaluated against animal welfare, land management, and social requirements set in the standard. The criteria help to verify that wool in a given product comes from farms that take a progressive approach to land management and respect the Five Freedoms of animal welfare.

Page Title: Responsible Down Standard (RDS) - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: The Responsible Down Standard (RDS) aims to improve the welfare of ducks and geese used for down. The standard incentivizes the down and feather industry to treat ducks and geese more humanely and rewards organizations leading the way. It provides a way for companies and consumers to know more about the origin of materials in the products they buy.

Page Title: Organic Cotton Market Report - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: The Organic Cotton Market Report provides a unique analysis of key data and emerging trends in organic and in-conversion cotton production. Each year, we share data from the previous harvest season in every producing country to create a complete picture of global supply. The report collects data from government agencies, certification and accreditation bodies, and independent organizations to give the industry a framework in which to identify opportunities, adversities, and irregularities by geographical context.

Page Title: Preferred Fiber and Materials Market Report 2022 - Textile Exchange
Webpage Contents: Our annual Materials Market Report pulls together data on the production volumes and availability of different fibers and raw materials, as well as sharing insights on emerging fiber trends. The report collects data from government agencies, certification and accreditation bodies, and independent organizations. It shows the industry where change needs to happen and accelerates action, helping companies discover sourcing opportunities and pinpoint challenges.