Organisation: Vegan Action
URL: https://vegan.org/
Page Title: Landing page

Vegan Action - We Certify Vegan Products We Certify About Certification FAQ Certified Companies Product Database The Process The Application Certification Alerts We Teach Why Vegan? For The Animals For The Environment For Your Health Vegetarian Dogs RVA Resources Better Food Guide RVA Richmond Spirits Guide RVA Free Food Pantries V72x2 We Inspire Tips & Meal Ideas About Veganism Vegan Tips Cooking with Kids Be An Advocate Videos Shopping & Dining Out Recipes Helpful Resources Common Animal – Derived Ingredients Books to Read, Films to Watch About Us Our Mission Our Outreach Our Team We Support Partnerships 2021 Pig Rescue Blog Make a Donation One-Time Donation Monthly Donation Contact Us Get Certified For the animals. For the environment. For your health. get started WE CERTIFY Our logo is a registered trademark for products that do not contain animal products or by-products and that have not been tested on animals. After 25 years, it has become the most trusted and best-recognized vegan logo. We have worked with over 1,500 companies in getting more than 15,000 products Vegan Certified. And we're adding more each day! Get Certified » WE EDUCATE We are dedicated to sharing the benefits of veganism, making it easier to transition to a diet free of animal products, supporting a life-long commitment to being vegan, and increasing the availability of vegan products in the market place. Through our various outreach campaigns and projects, we are reaching thousands of people every year to share, inspire, and teach why vegan is the best choice for the animals, the environment, and health benefits. Learn more » WE SUPPORT At Vegan Action, we educate and inspire people to become vegan for the animals, for the environment, and for their health - we are working toward the future to make the world a better place for all. In addition, we provide support to sanctuaries and organizations that are helping animals in need - today and tomorrow. We donate to animal sanctuaries, we provide microgrants to animal welfare organizations and school programs, and we sponsor grassroots and campus events promoting veganism and respect of all living creature. Learn more » Stay in the loop Get the latest and greatest from Vegan Action by signing up for our email newsletter. Don't worry, we'll never spam you or share your information! Stay connected Recent Posts Category: All Categories Articles Blog Posts Latest News Recipes Reviews Uncategorized June 12, 2025 Labels explained: Certified Vegan v. Plant-based Read More September 4, 2024 Whole Roasted Spicy Cauliflower Read More September 4, 2024 Tunaa Fhish Sando Read More « Older Posts © 1995 - 2025 Vegan Action/Vegan Awareness Foundation Translate »