Organisation: Cradle to Cradle
URL: https://c2ccertified.org/
Page Title: C2C Certified® Material Health - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute

Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute C2C Certified® Material Health Based on the assessment methodology set out in the Cradle to Cradle Certified Product Standard for the Material Health category, this certification verifies that chemicals and materials used in the product are selected to prioritize the protection of human health and the environment, generating a positive impact on the quality of materials available for future use and cycling. C2C Certified® Material Health Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Cradle to Cradle Certified® Material Health Standard, Version 4.1 15 January 2025, 286.92 KB (pdf) Download Cradle to Cradle Certified® Material Health Standard, Version 4.0 15 January 2025, 234.14 KB (pdf) Download Consumers and industries are increasingly interested in knowing more about the chemicals used in products across their supply chains and avoiding chemicals of concern. The C2C Certified® Material Health offers a solution to this. Using the rigorous, globally recognized Material Health assessment methodology of the Cradle to Cradle Certified Product Standard, it provides you with a trusted way of assessing and verifying your work towards safer product chemistries. The certification can be obtained in two different ways: As a standalone building block on the pathway to full Cradle to Cradle Certified certification. As an addition to your full certification, to provide more information about the chemicals used in your certified product. The Material Health certification process is the same as the Cradle to Cradle Certified certification process. Material Health certification is not a substitute for full product certification under the Cradle to Cradle Certified Product Standard. Start your certification journey Everything you need to know to begin the Cradle to Cradle Certified® certification process. Explore the process Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy