Organisation: Cradle to Cradle
URL: https://c2ccertified.org/
Page Title: C2C Certified® Circularity - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute

Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute C2C Certified® Circularity Our newest certification, C2C Certified Circularity® focuses on product circularity and offers measurable goals to guide all aspects of circular product development – from product design and sourcing of materials, to circular systems, packaging, and material health. C2C Certified® Circularity Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Cradle to Cradle Certified® Circularity Standard, Version 4.1 15 January 2025, 312.86 KB (pdf) Download This comprehensive approach ensures that products are intentionally designed for their next use and actively cycled within their intended pathways, such as reuse and/or recycling paths– decoupling value creation from carbon emissions, turning waste into resources, and increasing long term resilience. Backed by rigorous third-party verification, C2C Certified® Circularity enables companies to confidently communicate their tangible steps toward circular economy leadership. As a supportive tool for compliance, the certification helps companies meet and go beyond evolving regulatory standards while fostering innovation in circular design. Introducing C2C Certified® Circularity The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute proudly launches C2C Certified® Circularity, a new product certification to reshape sustainable product design and manufacturing by empowering companies of all sizes to intentionally develop products for the circular economy. The Institute Start your certification journey Everything you need to know to begin the Cradle to Cradle Certified® certification process. Explore the Process Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy