Organisation: Cradle to Cradle
URL: https://c2ccertified.org/
Page Title: Circular Economy - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute

Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Circular Economy The Circular Economy that we envision entails a revolutionary shift in the way we design and make things, where every resource that goes in can be reused in infinite cycles, just like it happens in nature. The Circular Economy is a pivotal concept in the Cradle to Cradle Certified® framework, being regarded as much more than just a solution to the waste problems caused by linear business models, as seen in common definitions. Rooted in the principles of the Cradle to Cradle® design concept, this approach requires that every step of a product’s use cycle, from design to production, to post-user life, is part of a circular pathway. Technical & Biological Pathways In our Cradle to Cradle Certified Product Standard, pathways can be technical or biological, with reference to the way a material is processed at the end of its use. We refer to a technical cycle when a product’s materials or parts are reprocessed for a new product use cycle via recycling, repair, refurbishment, remanufacturing or reuse. Conversely, in the biological cycle, materials or parts are released, and ideally reprocessed via composting, biodegradation, nutrient extraction, or other biological metabolic pathways. Sustainability Performance Category Product Circularity is one of the five categories of the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Product Standard, built on the pillars of Circular Sourcing, Circular Design and Circular Systems. Products are intentionally designed for their next use and are actively cycled in their intended cycling pathways. Circular Sourcing Cycled or renewable content Responsible sourcing of renewable content Circular Design Designed with cycling in mind Circular design opportunities Designed for disassembly Circular Systems Circular education Circularity Data Report & Cycling Instructions Active Cycling IKEA People & Planet Consumer Insights and Trends 2023 Research into sustainable living conducted by GlobeScan for Ingka Group (IKEA’s largest retailer) has identified five key ways to keep people motivated to take action on people and planet, and boost individual empowerment. Circular Economy How to design a circular product: R-strategies and Cradle to Cradle Certified® The so-called R-Strategies are widely known as design strategies for circular product design. So, what does it take to successfully apply these strategies to your product life cycle when you intend to work towards Cradle to Cradle Certified®? Circular Economy Engaging consumers in the Circular Shift Take a look back at this insightful panel exploring emerging consumer practices, challenges and opportunities with an inspirational panel of cross-sectoral leaders featuring Heather Barker from Reckitt, Alice Beyer Schuch from Bay City, Mads Kogsgaard Hansen from Bang & Olufsen, led by Joel Makower from GreenBiz Group. Three ways the circular economy can create value beyond circular material flows We know the linear economy is damaging our planet and impacting human health. Under the linear model, production and consumption have gone unchecked: the use of resources has tripled since 1970, putting increasing pressure on resource availability and producing more and more waste. What’s more, about 45% of global greenhouse gas emissions come from manufacturing and food production. Circular Economy ZF and Grohe implement Cradle to Cradle Certified® Cradle to Cradle Certified® is considered a very ambitious form of circular economy. ZF, Grohe and Bang & Olufsen have taken this path and show how it can be walked - even for medium-sized companies. Circular Economy The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute powers the shift to a circular economy. More About Us Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy 

Ethical Supply Chain Program becomes an approved Social Fairness partner - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute = Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute 16 Apr, 2025 Ethical Supply Chain Program becomes an approved Social Fairness partner The Ethical Supply Chain Program (ESCP) has been confirmed as an approved verification partner by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The Institute 16 April 2025, Excerpt from article published on www.ethicalsupplychain.org. Cradle to Cradle Certified® is the leading multi-attribute standard used globally across industries by designers, brands and manufacturers for designing and making circular products that enable a healthy, equitable and sustainable future. Products are assessed via five key pillars, including Social Fairness, which focuses on social commitment and working conditions along the supply chain. This includes respect for fair labor, human rights and a just society. Under the partnership, ESCP’s factory certification program is recognized as evidence a company meets requirements of the Social Fairness section of Cradle to Cradle Certified®. The ESCP and Cradle to Cradle Certified® partnership will also include collaborative efforts to help businesses create more sustainable, ethical and circular supply chains through a series of educational webinars, editorials and future events. Access the full article below. Read the full article Learn more here Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy 

C2C Certified® and OEKO-TEX® join forces for product circularity - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute = Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute 03 Jun, 2025 C2C Certified® and OEKO-TEX® join forces for product circularity This partnership is a breakthrough for the textile industry, enabling the scale-up of circular apparel, textile, and footwear without hazardous chemicals. The Institute Collaboration for Product Circularity: Cradle to Cradle Certified® x OEKO-TEX® The transition to a circular economy needs more collaboration across industries and sectors. This is why we take part in partnerships that equip businesses, governments and other stakeholders with the technical solutions and knowledge they need to innovate the way products are designed and made. The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute (C2CPII) drives the shift to a circular economy, by setting the global standard, C2C Certified®, for product circularity with science-based requirements for materials, products and systems that positively impact people and the planet. OEKO-TEX® standards enable the fashion and textile industry to make responsible decisions and protect natural resources. Driven by sustainability and a dedication to transparency, the work of OEKO-TEX® is grounded in proven science. The organisations joined hands to make it easier for the textile industry to create circular apparel, textile and footwear without hazardous chemicals. A breakthrough for the industry to be able to scale circular collections that are healthy to re-use and cycle. “Driving meaningful change requires collaboration. By working together and simplifying complex processes, we can create solutions that are easier to implement and scale.” Says Carolin Franitza, Stakeholder Manager at OEKO-TEX®. According to Nienke Steen, Director Apparel, Textile and Footwear at C2CPII, “It is possible to reshape the way we design and make things, using global standards, innovation and collaboration as a driver of change. Together, we make sure healthy materials and products are made for a resilient circular economy.” How companies can benefit from the collaboration Due to the collaboration with OEKO-TEX®, Cradle to Cradle Certified® recognizes all OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100, ORGANIC COTTON certified and MADE IN GREEN labeled materials to be used for circular collections. These labels ensure that the material is compliant with leading regulations in the EU, like REACH, and does not contain PFAS, covering over 90% of the chemicals restricted by C2C Certified® Circularity. This collaboration is a real breakthrough for the scalability of circularity in fashion. It provides an easier step towards actionable circular designs throughout the fashion and textile industry. How can companies easily design a C2C Certified® Circular collection combining OEKO-TEX® standards for safe materials and C2C Certified® Circularity? Step 1: Circular Sourcing To design a circular collection companies can choose recycled and/or responsibly sourced renewable materials, Cradle to Cradle Certified® recognizes all OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100, ORGANIC COTTON certified and MADE IN GREEN labeled materials. These labels ensure that the material is compliant with leading chemical regulations in the EU, like REACH, and does not contain PFAS, covering over 90% of the chemicals restricted by the C2C Certified® Circularity certificate (referring to the manual on Product Circularity in Apparel & Textile, Section Material Health for details on remaining requirements). Step 2: Circular Design The products need to be designed for circularity and therefore will be durable and at least cyclable at the end of life. Find 11 strategies and design for recyclability requirements in the manual on Product Circularity in Apparel & Textile that contribute to end-of-life cycling, greater engagement with users, durability and/or reducing the use of virgin materials. Step 3: Circular Systems Companies need to set up or work with a service or system for takeback, sorting and cycling. Collections with C2C Certified® Circularity come with a digital circularity data report that shows information on materials, circular design and the circular system that is intended to be used to make sure safe products and components will be actively cycled. More on the OEKO-TEX standards OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 is a label for textiles tested for harmful substances. It sets the benchmark for textile safety, from yarn to finished product. Every item bearing the STANDARD 100 label is certified as having passed safety tests for the presence of harmful substances. The OEKO-TEX® ORGANIC COTTON certification offers verification from farm to product. Products bearing this label have been manufactured without the use of GMOs and tested for pesticides and other harmful chemical substances and includes the OEKO-TEX 100 requirements. Textiles and leather items carrying the OEKO-TEX® MADE IN GREEN label are produced more sustainably in socially responsible workplaces. Customers purchase them with confidence that they are traceable and tested for harmful chemical substances. This label supports both better working conditions and a healthier planet. About OEKO-TEX® For more than 30 years, OEKO-TEX® has offered standardized solutions that companies in the textile and leather industry can use to transparently and sustainably optimize their manufacturing processes. Based on scientific principles, OEKO-TEX® contributes to bringing high-quality, safe and sustainable products to the market. 35,000 manufacturers, brands and trading companies, in more than 100 countries are currently working with OEKO-TEX®. At the same time, millions of consumers around the world use the OEKO-TEX® labels as a guide for their responsible purchasing decisions. Products and suppliers certified by OEKO-TEX® can be found in the online OEKO-TEX® buying guide at https://www.oeko-tex.com/en/buying-guide Follow OEKO-TEX® on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn and WeChat. About the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute is a global non-profit organization dedicated to advancing the circular economy by setting the global standard for materials, products and systems that positively impact people and the planet. Across the value chain, Cradle to Cradle Certified® is used to innovate and optimize materials and products according to the world’s most advanced science-based measures for material health, product circularity, clean air & climate protection, water & soil stewardship, and social fairness. Today, it is possible to reshape the way we design and make things, using innovation as a driver of change. More information C2CPII: Nienke Steen, Director Apparel, Textiles & Footwear [email protected] | www.c2ccertified.org OEKO-TEX® Association: Carolin Franitza, Stakeholder Manager [email protected] | www.oeko-tex.com Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy 

Innovating for Tomorrow: Designing Products for Circularity - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute = Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute 19 September Webinar Innovating for Tomorrow: Designing Products for Circularity We look forward to participating in an educational webinar on designing products fit for the circular economy, hosted by the Singapore Fashion Council. Circular Economy Get ready to rethink fashion! Join the Institute for an educational webinar on designing products fit for the circular economy. Learn more about safer chemical compositions, responsible material choices, and product end-of-life strategies to embrace circular design to create future-proof fashion. Gain insights into the latest EU regulations, Digital Product Passport, and eco-design standards for textiles. Don’t miss this chance to stay ahead and shape the future of fashion! The Institute's Business & Policy Specialist, Lucie Ladigue, will be speaking at this event about Cradle to Cradle Certified® and EU policy insights. Key Takeaways Circular Product Design: Learn how material choices and lifecycle management support circular design, reducing a product’s overall environmental impact. EU Legislation: Dive into the Eco-Design Regulation for Textiles and its role is shaping global sustainability standards. Digital Product Passport: Discover how this tool enhances transparency and traceability, empowering sustainable choices for consumers and businesses. Singapore’s Fashion Industry: Explore how Singaporean brands can adapt to global sustainability trends and seize new opportunities. Don't miss the opportunity Register here Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy