Organisation: Cradle to Cradle
URL: https://c2ccertified.org/
Page Title: Home - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute

Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Product circularity, verified Our newest product certification empowers companies of all sizes to intentionally develop products for the circular economy. Learn more Latest updates Why C2C Certified® remains essential despite the Green Claims Directive’s uncertain future The European Commission’s plan to withdraw the Green Claims Directive has caused concern in the sustainability community, but our efforts to fight greenwashing continue. The Institute C2C Certified® and OEKO-TEX® join forces for product circularity This partnership is a breakthrough for the textile industry, enabling the scale-up of circular apparel, textile, and footwear without hazardous chemicals. The Institute Events More events 1 July 2025 - Online Webinar Launching C2C Certified® Circularity in Fashion Hosted by C2CPII Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Learn more 19 Sep 2025 Webinar Innovating for Tomorrow: Designing Products for Circularity Circular Economy More news Introducing C2C Certified® Circularity The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute proudly launches C2C Certified® Circularity, a new product certification to reshape sustainable product design and manufacturing by empowering companies of all sizes to intentionally develop products for the circular economy. The Institute How to talk about sustainability when the vibes feel off Talking about sustainability in today’s climate can be challenging. Our Director for the Built Environment, Ren DeCherney, explores how to reframe the narrative, stay resilient, and continue driving meaningful impact–even when the momentum feels uncertain. Circular Economy Ethical Supply Chain Program becomes an approved Social Fairness partner The Ethical Supply Chain Program (ESCP) has been confirmed as an approved verification partner by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The Institute C2C Certified® improves the standard for further OECD alignment The participation of the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute in the OECD alignment assessment marks a key milestone in advancing the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Product Standard and driving continuous sustainability improvements. The Institute Companies leading the circular shift From market leaders to innovators, companies in our community drive the transformation towards a circular economy today. MEET OUR COMMUNITY Find out more about the Institute Founded by William McDonough and Michael Braungart in 2010, the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute powers the shift to the circular economy. About Us Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy