Organisation: Cradle to Cradle
URL: https://c2ccertified.org/
Page Title: Introducing C2C Certified® Circularity - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute

Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute 14 Oct, 2024 Introducing C2C Certified® Circularity The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute proudly launches C2C Certified® Circularity, a new product certification to reshape sustainable product design and manufacturing by empowering companies of all sizes to intentionally develop products for the circular economy. The Institute Product Circularity, Verified One of the most impactful actions companies can take today for both people and the planet is to design products optimized for circularity. Intentional design for circular systems unlocks major sustainability benefits on carbon, waste, and air and soil quality. Based on the recently updated Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 standard, this new certification offers measurable goals to guide all aspects of circular product development – from design and sourcing, to circular systems, packaging, and material health. Backed by rigorous third-party verification, C2C Certified® Circularity enables companies to confidently communicate their tangible steps toward circular economy leadership. As a supportive tool for compliance, the certification helps companies meet and go beyond evolving regulatory standards while fostering innovation in circular design. Elwyn Grainger-Jones, Executive Director at the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute, emphasized the urgency for circularity: "Building on the success and network of Cradle to Cradle Certified®, this new certification will help companies create thousands more verified circular products that consumers can trust. As we continue to exceed critical planetary boundaries, the need for circularity in product design is more urgent than ever.” About C2C Certified® Circularity The requirements for C2C Certified® Circularity focus on Product Circularity, one of the five core categories of the Cradle to Cradle Certified® framework. These requirements are structured around three key areas: circular sourcing, circular design, and circular systems. This comprehensive approach ensures that products are intentionally designed for their next use and actively cycled within their intended pathways, such as reuse and/or recycling paths– decoupling value creation from carbon emissions, turning waste into resources, and increasing long term resilience. “Expanding our portfolio with C2C Certified® Circularity is an excellent development in the 20-year legacy of the program, to further drive the shift toward safe, sustainable, and circular production practices,” said William McDonough, Co-founder of the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. “This new certification reinforces the vital importance of circularity and regenerative practices to innovate into a world where products are designed for use and next use as perpetual, clean assets for future generations.” Alignment with EU and US Regulations One of the standout features of C2C Certified® Circularity is its ability to help companies stay ahead of existing and upcoming regulations and reporting requirements. C2C Certified® Circularity goes beyond the baseline requirements of the EU’s Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation (ESPR) by tackling the problem of waste at the source, and generates a third-party verified Circularity Data Report that sets companies up for the Digital Product Passport (DPP); and, in the US, helps companies meet growing state-level requirements to reduce waste through Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) policies, recycled content and recycling requirements. “As companies navigate the emerging landscape of EU regulations, this new certification helps set them up for both compliance and innovation,” said Christine Lemaitre, Chief Executive Officer of DGNB (German Sustainable Building Council) and Chair of the Board of Directors at the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. Leveraging the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Standard, network and recognition C2C Certified® Circularity is based on Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 standard –the most advanced, science-based sustainability product standard available. This new certification, alongside the existing full standard and Material Health category certifications, leverages the global recognition of Cradle to Cradle Certified® and more than two decades of experience in circularity innovation, benefiting from established leadership and extensive network capabilities, with nine expert Assessment Bodies and a global community of hundreds of companies with certified products. “At Gensler we know that circularity is an essential approach for designing resilient, sustainable spaces. By closing the loop on materials and energy flows, we create buildings that not only minimize waste but actively contribute to the regeneration of our planet,” said Rives Taylor, Principal and Director of Gensler Research Institute Resilience Center, and Board Member of the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. “C2C Certified® Circularity will scale up availability of products for our projects which, as articulated in Gensler’s Product Sustainability Standards, drive healthier, lower-carbon, and more sustainable materials in the built environment.” Rooted in Cradle to Cradle® Design Principles Cradle to Cradle® design principles were pioneered by William McDonough and Michael Braungart. These principles revolutionize product creation by transforming how products are made– ensuring materials are continuously cycled in either the biological or technical cycle. Additionally, the principles stimulate the use of healthy, non-toxic substances, harness renewable energy, and convert waste into valuable resources. They also embrace social fairness and inclusivity, shaping a future where products benefit both people and the planet. Accessible Pathway for all Companies The C2C Certified® Circularity certification presents an accessible pathway for companies of all sizes to create and verify circular products. Whether a small company or a multinational brand, this opens the door for more companies to embark on the Cradle to Cradle Certified® journey and select the pathway to meet the standard. "Establishing a global product circularity standard across sectors is vital; it sets the stage for brands and manufacturers to align on best practices that minimize waste, optimize resource use, and foster circular design innovation. Together, we can step by step transform industries into sustainable ecosystems that respect our planet and communities, avoid climate breakdown, and help double global circularity by 2032," said Hilde van Duijn, Managing Director of Circle Economy Foundation. Learn more and apply for C2C Certified® Circularity Brands and manufacturers interested in applying for C2C Certified® Circularity and learning more about its benefits can visit our Circularity web page or email us at [email protected]. Learn more About the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute is a global nonprofit organization dedicated to advancing the circular economy. Through the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Products Program, the Institute sets the global standard for circular product design, driving the transition to a circular economy where every material and product positively impacts both people and the planet. The Institute certifies products based on the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Product Standard, an advanced and holistic framework encompassing five core areas of sustainability: Material Health, Product Circularity, Clean Air & Climate Protection, Water & Soil Stewardship, and Social Fairness. In addition to the full Cradle to Cradle Certified® certification, the Cradle to Cradle Certified® program offers two specialized certifications based on the full Product Standard: C2C Certified® Material Health and now C2C Certified® Circularity, each allowing companies to focus on different aspects of sustainable design and manufacturing. Founded in 2009, the Institute is headquartered in San Francisco, California, US and Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Its dedicated international team supports companies and manufacturers across sectors in adopting the standard, offering comprehensive solutions to implement circular business models and address global sustainability challenges. For more information, visit www.c2ccertified.org. Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy 

C2C Certified® improves the standard for further OECD alignment - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute = Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute 27 Jun, 2025 C2C Certified® improves the standard for further OECD alignment The participation of the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute in the OECD alignment assessment marks a key milestone in advancing the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Product Standard and driving continuous sustainability improvements. The Institute The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute (The Institute) was honoured to participate in the OECD alignment assessment (standards-only) with the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Product Standard (C2C Certified®). This rigorous process has led to significant improvements and valuable insights, supporting the institute’s continuous journey towards sustainable practices. We are grateful for the support and the useful recommendations received throughout this process. C2C Certified® is the global standard for products that are healthy, circular and made with respect for people and planet. The standard is developed by the Institute and led by the multi-stakeholder Standards Steering Committee. With Version 4.0 of C2C Certified®, the institute aimed to integrate a due diligence approach according to the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Due Diligence Guidance. The Institute recently launched a revised standard, Version 4.1, and embedded insights obtained from the assessment for closer alignment with the OECD Guidance. Completing the assessment has refined the sections on social and environmental policies and management systems, ensuring the approach supports impactful due diligence implementation. In an era of mandatory sustainability compliance, the Institute offers an improved approach by the aim to align with OECD standards. This supports companies to take responsibility while meeting global sustainability expectations. General strengths C2C Certified® includes expectations related to all six steps of the OECD Garment Guidance and also contains comprehensive expectations on labour conditions. C2C Certified® addresses key product- and material related risks in the value chain by encouraging companies to design products of high-quality materials that prioritize the protection of human health and the environment with a strong focus on safe chemicals. On top of that, companies need to design products for cycling and to use recycled and/or renewable materials. The C2C Certified® standard is well-structured, clearly indicating which expectations apply at each level. The User Guidance details the expectations, outlines possible evidence allowing for consistent interpretation and assessment of the standard and supports enterprises with explanations of key concepts and examples. General opportunities for improvement The multi-category standard includes the recognition of other programs and certifications to overcome double auditing and to ensure responsible raw materials are prioritized. The alignment assessment concludes that some of the C2C Certified® requirements may promote over-reliance by companies on third-party verification. While C2C Certified® encourages companies to make progress over time through the different certification levels (Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Platinum), including through mandating that products cannot remain Bronze level certified for more than six years, the varying supply chain scope of the criteria across the different certification levels is not without challenges. The standard incentivizes companies to focus their due diligence on certain supply tiers, types of suppliers, and risks, which is not fully consistent with key overarching principles of the OECD due diligence. The purpose of the C2C Certified® approach is to ensure that companies do not overlook suppliers associated with the most significant risks and impacts along their supply chain, leaving these unidentified and unaddressed. Additionally, the framing of several criteria that companies must fulfil before re-certification could unintentionally encourage them to delay actions until immediately prior to re-certification. Finally, the last conclusion is that the standard and User Guidance use some inconsistent terminology and needs to add some definitions. This is an issue that has been addressed in the revised standard (Version 4.1). What is improved in Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1? The majority of the Environmental Policy and Management requirements have been updated with the latest standard revision. The scope of the Bronze level on environmental policy, risk assessment, and strategy, as well as the Silver and Gold levels on management system requirements have been strengthened. Under the Version 4.1 standard, these requirements now apply to the applicant company rather than focusing primarily on final manufacturing stage facilities and the certified product. Under the updated V4.1 standard, environmental topics are now included in the Bronze level risk assessment. These topics encompass greenhouse gas emissions and their contribution to climate change, environmental pollution (air, fresh and marine water, soil), resource use and circularity, biodiversity, and ecosystems. For large companies (≥ 250,000 employees), these same issues must always be addressed in the company’s environmental policy. For other companies, these issues must be addressed in the policy if they are identified as high-risk per the risk assessment. The scope of the Silver level monitor and verify performance requirements, as well as the Silver and Gold level grievance mechanism, transparency, and stakeholder engagement requirements, has been expanded. These requirements now encompass both environmental and human rights aspects. Previously under Version 4.0, these requirements were only found in the Social Fairness category and focused solely on human rights. With these updates, the Environmental Policy & Management requirements will be aligned with the human rights due diligence requirements already present in the Version 4.0 Social Fairness category. This alignment ensures that the standard includes a comprehensive set of human rights and environmental due diligence requirements, increasingly consistent with leading regulations and international guidelines including the European Union’s Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (CSRD) and the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct. The institute expresses its gratitude to the OECD and will continue to work towards developing the most optimal standards for companies to create a positive impact through the design and production of C2C Certified® products. The full alignment assessment report can be found here. For more information, please contact: Nienke Steen, Director Apparel, Textiles & Footwear [email protected] Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy