Organisation: Cradle to Cradle
URL: https://c2ccertified.org/
Page Title: Launching C2C Certified® Circularity in Fashion - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute

Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Past event 1 July 2025 Online Webinar Launching C2C Certified® Circularity in Fashion Join our digital presentation unveiling the new global standard and certification – C2C Certified® Circularity – alongside the launch of the Manual on Product Circularity in Apparel and Textiles. Hosted by C2CPII Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Introducing the global standard and certification for Circularity: C2C Certified® Circularity We are excited to invite you to a digital presentation unveiling the new global standard and certification – C2C Certified® Circularity – alongside the launch of the Manual on Product Circularity in Apparel and Textiles. This certification and the manual are based on the Product Circularity section of the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Full Scope standard Version 4.1 and the design principles of our founders William McDonough and Michael Braungart. Tuesday, July 1st Choose your session: • Session 1: 11:00 am - 12:00 pm CEST – for companies in Asia and Europe • Session 2: 3:30 pm - 4:30 pm CEST – for companies in Europe and the Americas This session will offer valuable insights into the evolving textile landscape and offers a framework for circular design, -sourcing and -systems. You’ll discover how the new standard empowers brands and suppliers to design for cycling, meet upcoming regulatory demands, and lead the shift toward a regenerative fashion system. We look forward to welcoming you to this important milestone for the industry! Session 1: 11:00 am - 12:00 pm CEST Register here Session 2: 3:30 pm - 4:30 pm CEST Register here Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy