Organisation: Cradle to Cradle
URL: https://c2ccertified.org/
Page Title: Textiles, Apparel & Footwear - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute

Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Textiles, Apparel & Footwear As piles of wasted clothing are growing every day and less than 1% of current textile production is circular, there is unprecedented urgency to change sourcing models, design strategies and production systems in the fashion, apparel, textile and footwear sectors. Our textiles, apparel & footwear specialists help companies in the sector to shape their sustainable product strategies and create products that are made for tomorrow. Our community includes companies operating in the Apparel, Textiles and Footwear sectors, mostly consisting of fashion brands and retailers, but also suppliers and manufacturing facilities where garments, workwear, footwear, accessories, textiles or leather goods for different applications are designed and produced. While consumers, investors and policymakers have an important role to play in the transition to a circular economy, companies are expected to take center-stage, and leverage available powerful frameworks to elevate the circular economy. Companies in the Cradle to Cradle Certified Products Program are the frontrunners of the sector, driving sustainable innovation by designing and making safe, circular and responsibly made products. Circular Pathways for Apparel and Textiles The apparel, textile and footwear industries produce high quantities of ‘textile waste’ which include textile items at the end of life, discarded items (because out of fashion/or change in weight), fabric and leather leftovers (overstock), or fabric scraps from facilities. Sometimes they also include textile and leather products that have been produced but not sold. These industries have the opportunity - and the ability - to activate the creative and commercial mindset needed to create future business models that take advantage of such waste, full of sources. The Cradle to Cradle Certified Product Standard features two product cycle pathways and five R-Strategies, offering you the opportunity to learn about circular products, system methodologies and related requirements. Next to product circularity, the standard sets requirements for Material Health and a responsible supply chain, requiring value cycle chain cooperation with relevant stakeholders. Our Global Community “We truly believe in the future of circular fashion and circular design. That is why our garments are designed and produced in ways that ensure materials can be used throughout many long life cycles. Cradle to Cradle thinking is the basis for this and the standard supports our transformation to a circular product offering that meets consumer needs and fulfills increasing ecological requirements.” Janine Weiz-Bühler | Director Brand & Product Calida “Cradle to Cradle Certified® gives us 100% transparency in our value chain – a prerequisite for identifying and improving our environmental footprint, and a catalyst for evolution to a circular business model. Our suppliers are a cornerstone in our strategy, and the certification process gave us even deeper knowledge of our materials and products, helping us engage in impactful opportunities to create positive change and innovation with our suppliers.” Frederikke Antonie Schmidt | Founder & Creative Director Roccamore Fast-Changing Regulatory Landscapes Our program helps companies to stay ahead of the game, comply with upcoming legislations, and validate green claims. For example, the EU Strategy for Sustainable and Circular Textiles is a comprehensive legislative initiative whose proposals range from Eco Design to Green claims requirements, to Digital Product Passports, to the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR). In the near future all regulated products will have Digital Product Passports, making it easier to repair or recycle products and facilitate tracking substances of concern along the supply chain. The proposal also contains measures to end the destruction of unsold consumer goods, as well as expand green public procurement and provide incentives for sustainable products. EPR, for instance, holds producers accountable for the waste that their products create. The requirements entail separate collection of waste and its subsequent management in line with the waste hierarchy. EPR also incentivizes product design that promotes circularity throughout the material life cycle and takes account of the end of products’ life. Several EU Member States, including the Netherlands and France, already introduced EPR requirements for textile companies, given the obligation under EU waste legislation to establish separate collection of textile waste by 1 January 2025. This ambitious fast-changing regulatory landscape will progressively lead to a collective cooperation and better facilitation for companies and consumers to cycle their products. User Group for Apparel & Textiles View User Group Newsletters Read February 2023 Newsletter Read December 2023 Newsletter Marmara Hemp® upgraded to C2C Certified Material Health Certificate™ Platinum V4.0 A transformative milestone in sustainable textile industry. Textiles, Apparel & Footwear How Ocean Safe is harnessing technology to transform the textile industry Ocean Safe is on a mission to transform the textiles industry through its game-changing technology. It introduced its first material, naNea in 2021, as a circular alternative to conventional polyester. Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Timeless fashion, responsibly made: Ralph Lauren’s iconic sweater now C2C Certified® Global leader in luxury lifestyle products, Ralph Lauren, demonstrates its increasing commitment to responsible fashion by introducing its first-ever Cradle to Cradle (C2C) Certified® Gold, Cashmere Sweater. Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Yoga clothing for a healthy and sustainable lifestyle Founded by German-Peruvian entrepreneur Heike Petersen Cunza, Wellicious just launched eco-friendly yoga exercise outfits. Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Alberto Candiani on C2C Certified® becoming a quality seal for the textile and fashion industry Alberto Candiani is at the helm of family-run company Candiani Denim, one of the world's most sustainable and innovative denim mills, established in 1938 in a small Italian town near Milan, today producing for many prestigious names in the fashion market. Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Inside Bananatex®: the world’s first technical fabric made from naturally grown Abacá banana plants. 100% made from plants cultivated in the Philippines within a natural ecosystem, Bananatex® was developed by Swiss bag brand and material innovators QWSTION in collaboration with Taiwan-based yarn specialists and weaving partners, united by the ambition to make a positive impact on the future of our planet. Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Product circularity in apparel, textile & footwear: R-strategies and the need to re-organize We are aiming for an economy that is 100% circular by 2050. As piles of wasted clothing are growing every day and less than 1% of current textile production is circular, there is unprecedented urgency to change sourcing models, design strategies and production systems in the Fashion, Apparel, Textile and Footwear sectors. Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Botto Giuseppe makes sustainability the new luxury Botto Giuseppe has said that “sustainability is the new luxury” – and in the eyes of this Italian mill, that means providing materials that enable the creation of beautiful luxury goods made in an environmentally conscientious way. Textiles, Apparel & Footwear Devon Leahy on the future of the fashion industry Watch our executive interview with Devon Leahy, VP of Sustainability at Ralph Lauren. She explains Ralph Lauren’s new sustainability strategy and why it involves certifying five of their iconic products as part of the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Products Program. She also shares insights about current transformations and expectations in the future of the fashion industry. Omer Ahmed on a partnership-based approach to sustainability Watch our executive interview with Omer Ahmed, CEO at Artistic Milliners as he covers the most urgent sustainability challenges facing the fashion industry today, and solutions for advancing the way the industry can design and make products with a positive impact for today and tomorrow. Artistic Milliners is a vertically integrated global leader in denim fabric and garment making headquartered in Karachi, Pakistan. Omer is also the co-founder of Star Fades International, a fully operational denim laundry and design center located in Los Angeles, California. How to certify your product? Learn more about the Cradle to Cradle Certified® Products Program and how to certify. Get Certified Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy 

How to talk about sustainability when the vibes feel off - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute = Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute 24 Apr, 2025 How to talk about sustainability when the vibes feel off Talking about sustainability in today’s climate can be challenging. Our Director for the Built Environment, Ren DeCherney, explores how to reframe the narrative, stay resilient, and continue driving meaningful impact–even when the momentum feels uncertain. Circular Economy This blog post was written by Ren DeCherney, Director for the Built Environment at the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. A leading voice in sustainable design, Ren brings deep expertise and fresh insight into how we can make meaningful impact–even when the vibes feel off. Let’s be real – talking about sustainability right now feels really tricky. With budgets tightening, priorities shifting, and a fair amount of skepticism in the air, it’s easy to wonder, Should I even say the word “sustainability” anymore? If you’ve been feeling this, you’re not alone. To unpack these challenges and explore how to navigate sustainability messaging in today’s climate, Ren DeCherney sat down with Holly Holton, a certified Gallup Strengths Coach with a background in corporate sustainability. Ren offered insights and strategies drawn from her experience as a designer and her work with manufacturers advancing innovation through the Cradle to Cradle Certified® program. Holly contributed guidance on building individual and team capacity through professional development, shaped by her experience as both a sustainability leader and a coach. Together, they explored why the conversation feels tougher, how professionals can reframe their approach, and how to continue making an impact no matter what the external climate may be. If you’re ready to make an impact, no matter how the vibes feel, here’s what you can do: Why sustainability feels harder right now The business landscape is shifting, and sustainability in all shapes and forms is now facing more scrutiny, especially in the US market. Companies are crunching numbers, investors are looking for quick returns, and some people are wondering if prioritizing sustainability still makes sense. “There’s a sense that people want to do the right thing, but they’re also worried about how it affects their bottom line,” Holly pointed out. Ren added “it’s not just about money, it’s about burnout. People are wondering if what they’re doing even makes a difference.” Sound familiar? The good news: There’s a way forward. Focus on client goals and reframe the conversation If sustainability talk is getting pushback our advice is to reframe the conversation. We heard someone in the industry recently say “we’re changing the words, not the strategy.” Instead of leading with sustainability goals, try focusing on things that resonate with your audience. This starts with understanding your client and their goals for the project. Just like designers listen to client goals and turn it into compelling concepts and space planning, ask your client questions to understand what their needs are, what problems or challenges this project is trying to solve, what their priorities are as a company. From there, you can frame sustainability in the terms that resonate with them. Here are some examples of how this can look when you encounter real life roadblocks (that we have all faced at some time!): Focus on benefits, not buzzwords: For the C-suite or leadership, sustainability isn’t about being ‘green’–it’s about future-proofing their business and avoiding regulatory headaches. Cradle to Cradle Certified®, a multi-attribute and 3rd party verified program is a measurable pathway of innovation and sustainability optimization, giving you many entry points of specific benefits that you can frame conversations with leadership teams around. Are they concerned about rising energy costs? Decarbonization is a great way to reduce those costs long-term. Are they looking at de-risking their supply chain? Looking at material health and social fairness are great places to start in terms of evaluating risk throughout a supply chain. Use different words: For example instead of saying “material transparency” or “healthy materials” you can advocate for creating spaces that feel good and create great customer experiences by using materials that don’t off gas and improve indoor air quality. Maybe even cite some studies showing people are more productive and happier in these spaces. When they say it’s too expensive: Is it though? Talk about the long term costs, maintenance costs, and durability of materials if you’re a designer. If you’re in a corporate role, talk about long term financial gains by reducing risk in your supply chain and staying ahead of upcoming regulations. Do it anyway, you just don’t have to say anything about it: Sometimes the most effective thing to do in times like this is just doing whatever you can and not mentioning it! For example, Ren mentioned adding a Red List Free paint into her firms base spec without telling anyone. Holly mentioned times when she presented options to leadership and every option met baseline sustainability criteria so she didn’t even have to make the argument to choose a sustainable option. If you are in a place where you can’t even bring it up, there might be ways for you to implement small impacts without having to ask permission or focus on it. What you can do for yourself right now In uncertain and chaotic times (like right now!), humans naturally crave safety and certainty, but when those feel out of reach, the best thing we can do is focus on ourselves. That doesn’t mean forced optimism–it means building resilience, creativity, calm, and hope by developing self-awareness. Understanding our habits, beliefs, and subconscious programming helps us direct our energy and attention in ways that serve us. By becoming more aware of our inner critic and shifting our focus, we can navigate uncertainty with greater confidence and clarity. Here are some great ways to do that, at all levels in your career: For yourself: Finding a support system and holding onto hope comes from being together and focusing on things we can directly effect. Cultivate resilience by paying attention to your own attention–where are you focused? Instead of doomscrolling, find small things in a day that you can do that help regain your focus–get your body moving, text or call a friend, do a crossword puzzle or read a book. All of these strategies have been proven to help you feel better, more focused, and more resilient. As a team leader: As a team leader, you have a huge influence on how your people show up. Gallup research shows that up to 70% of an employee’s engagement comes from their direct manager–not the company or its mission, but you. In a world struggling with loneliness, anxiety, and burnout, your leadership can give your team hope and direction. The key is knowing yourself, your strengths, your weaknesses, so you can lead with awareness and impact. Gallup’s 2025 Global Leadership Report, based on decades of research across 52 countries, revealed a powerful insight: the most impactful leaders provide hope, trust, compassion, and stability –with hope being the most frequently mentioned trait. This shows that as a leader, you have the power to be a beacon of hope for your team. It’s a big responsibility but understanding what your people truly need is the first step to build the trust that leads to hope. And remember, as a leader, you’re also a follower–these same qualities matter for you too. Leadership isn’t just about managing; it’s about mentoring and making a real difference. (Check out this great newsletter about how to be a better manager and leader) As a company leader: As a company leader, remember the four key needs of your people: hope, trust, compassion, and stability. Decide who you want your company to be–what you stand for and the values you uphold. When you lead with clarity and trust rather than fear, the right talent and clients will naturally find you, while those who don’t align will move on. Investing in a leadership coach, whether internal or external, can also be a game-changer in strengthening your impact. What you can do in your projects right now No matter where you sit in an organization, you can drive change. Here are some great actions you can practice to further your sustainability goals as a designer and as a manufacturer. Designers: Change specs! Pick big impact spec sections: floors, walls, ceilings, furniture, and swap in products that meet your sustainability goals. Start in one section and keep building on success! Align our ask around the mindfulMATERIALS Common Materials Framework – the more we align, the faster we can make real life impact. Don’t believe me, check out this great blog they wrote about how we can stop wasting our time and make real progress. Join groups doing this work in your community: inspiration, passion, and energy to keep going comes from being around others who are also doing the work! Keep asking! Be vocal with your reps and manufacturers about what your sustainability goals are and they will listen! The average designer has 26x the spending power of an average consumer, so manufacturers are definitely listening when you tell them what you want because they want your business. Manufacturers: Track sustainability requests: this helps build the business case for pursuing sustainability goals and certifications. Check out what your competitors are doing: understanding the competitive landscape can help build the case internally that sustainability isn’t just a “nice to have” but a “need to have.” Change procurement policies or supplier contracts (if you can): start working with suppliers who take sustainability as seriously as you do, and expand your impact beyond your own doors. Go for robust 3rd party verified certifications so you can prove that you’re walking the walk. Sum it up for me: Despite the challenges, one thing hasn’t changed: People want healthier, more sustainable products. The key is meeting them where they are, speaking their language, and making sustainability feel like a smart, strategic choice—not an extra burden. The vibes might feel off, but the work isn’t stopping. If we adjust our messaging and stay committed, we can make real impacts. Keep it up! Reach out to Ren DeCherney or Holly Holton to chat more about your sustainability goals or your professional development! Ren DeCherney, Director Built Environment Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute [email protected] LinkedIn Holly Holton, Gallup Strengths Coach Holly Holton Workplace Resilience www.hollyholton.com LinkedIn Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy 

Why C2C Certified® remains essential despite the Green Claims Directive’s uncertain future - Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute = Certified Products Resources Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute Donate The Standard Cradle to Cradle Certified® Version 4.1 Circularity Certification Material Health Certification Development of the Standard Recognitions Resources Get Certified The Program The Process Get Started EU Policy & Regulatory Framework Certified Products Our Community About Our Community Brands & Manufacturers Retailers Assessors The Institute About the Institute The Team Governance Events News & Media Careers Contact Us Donate Menu Close Subscribe to Newsletter Browse Certified Products Donate to the institute 27 Jun, 2025 Why C2C Certified® remains essential despite the Green Claims Directive’s uncertain future The European Commission’s plan to withdraw the Green Claims Directive has caused concern in the sustainability community, but our efforts to fight greenwashing continue. The Institute The European Commission’s recent announcement of its intention to withdraw the Green Claims Directive has stirred confusion and concern across the sustainability landscape. The directive, designed to combat greenwashing by requiring companies to substantiate environmental claims, was a key pillar of the EU Green Deal. Yet despite this political turbulence, our resolve to tackle greenwashing remains firm, and Cradle to Cradle Certified® (C2C Certified®) products are more important than ever. Why C2C Certified® is a strategic anchor In this moment of regulatory uncertainty, C2C Certified® offers a credible, future-proof alternative to ensure environmental claims remain trustworthy and transparent: Resilience amid deregulation: With parts of the EU Green Deal under pressure, voluntary leadership becomes even more critical. C2C Certified® enables companies to demonstrate proactive responsibility, regardless of legislative delays. Independent verification: C2C Certified® requires third-party assessment, ensuring that claims are not only ambitious but also verifiable, precisely the kind of rigor the Green Claims Directive aimed to enforce. Alignment with broader EU policy: The certification aligns with other key EU frameworks such as the CSRD and ESPR, helping companies stay ahead of compliance requirements even as some texts face revision or simplification. Market differentiation and trust: As public scrutiny of green claims intensifies, C2C Certified® provides a clear signal of integrity and commitment to circularity, material health, and social fairness. Leading by Example The uncertainty surrounding the Green Claims Directive is a reminder that political winds can shift. But our mission to eliminate greenwashing by verifying that products are designed for health, circularity and fairness remains unchanged. By continuing to follow C2C Certified® framework, designers and manufacturers are equipped with science-based tools to create products that are designed for the future. Let’s not wait for the rules to catch up. Let’s lead with integrity, transparency, and ambition. Stay in the loop Receive inspiring stories and updates directly in your mailbox Subscribe Get in touch Please select which of these topics best suits your inquiry General Certification Careers Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute Inc. is a US 501c3 organization with EIN: 27-1832830 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute B.V. is registered in The Netherlands with KVK: 66481260 © Copyright 2025 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. All Rights Reserved. Governance Careers Terms of Use Privacy