Organisation: Better Cotton
URL: https://bettercotton.org/
Page Title: FullContent

lenge.

At Better Cotton, we are committed to promoting decent working conditions through our initiatives and partnerships. By working with our Programme Partners, we focus on empowering local communities, providing training and resources, and advocating for policy changes that prioritize the rights and welfare of cotton farmers and workers worldwide. We believe that addressing these challenges holistically is essential for creating a more sustainable and equitable cotton sector that improves livelihoods and supports community well-being.

Slide
Who We Are
Who we are
Our Manifesto
Our Aims and Strategy
What’s behind the logo?
Our history
Our organisation
Membership
Associate Membership
Civil Society Membership
Producer Organisation Membership
Retailer and Brand Membership
Supplier and Manufacturer Membership
Find Members
Member Monitoring
Better Cotton Platform
myBetterCotton
Resources – Better Cotton Conference 2022
Complaints
Whistleblowing
Safeguarding
Get Involved in the Better Cotton Programme
Thank you for contacting us
Better Cotton’s Data Privacy Policy
Log in
Members’ Area
Request for Proposals
Better Cotton Cookie Policy
Web Reference
Measuring Cotton Consumption
How to Implement the Chain of Custody Standard
Resources – Better Cotton Conference 2023
Certification Bodies Old
Latest
Safeguarding
Resources – Better Cotton Conference 2024
The Members Area is no longer available
Whistleblowing
Complaints
Better Cotton in Spain
myBetterCotton
Home
Elastic search (prototype)
Map
Sourcing With Mass Balance
Sourcing Better Cotton
Sourcing Physical Better Cotton
New BCI Cotton Label
Better Cotton Living Income Project: Insights from India
Resources – Better Cotton Conference 2025
Test Password
Subscribe to newsletter
Contact
Policies
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Newsletter sign-up
Newsletter sign-up
Do you want to know what the largest cotton sustainability programme in the world is up to? Keep up to date with the latest developments and hear from BCI Farmers, Partners and Members in the new BCI Quarterly Newsletter. BCI Members also receive a Monthly Member Update.
Leave a few details below and you’ll receive the next newsletter.
Notice: JavaScript is required for this content.
We’ve updated our Data Privacy Policy
These updates are intended to reflect changes to the Better Cotton Platform’s default sharing settings and data use in our Audit management system.
You don’t need to do anything to accept these changes – they’re effective from today, 2 April 2025.
You can read the full text by visiting our Data Privacy Policy page.
View Data Privacy Policy
×
The Better Cotton Living Income Project: Insights from India
Please fill in this request form to receive the full report: The Better Cotton Living Income Project: Insights from India
Notice: JavaScript is required for this content.
×
Cookies
Update: We have recently updated our
Data Privacy Policy
and to comply with GDPR we need users to review changes and confirm acceptance.
Note: We use cookies to improve your experience on our site and for tracking purposes. You give us your permission to do so by continuing to use our website. To learn more about cookies and opt-out options, please refer to our
Cookie Policy
.
I Agree
Settings
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
3rd Party Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.
3rd Party Cookies
This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages.
Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!
Enable All
Save Changes