Organisation: Gold Standard
URL: https://www.goldstandard.org/
Page Title: MEDIA RELEASE-Gold Standard Signs Mutual Recognition Agreement with Indonesian Government

media release UPDATED May 8, 2025 Gold Standard Signs Mutual Recognition Agreement with Indonesian Government Date May 8, 2025 Location Jakarta, Indonesia Released by Gold Standard Download Media Release media contact Gold Standard , Press Office [email protected] Today Gold Standard signed a Mutual Recognition Agreement (MRA) with the Indonesian Ministry of Environment (MoE). With the adoption of this Agreement, the Government of Indonesia formally recognises emission reduction certifications issued by Gold Standard under Ministerial Regulation No.21/2022, which govern carbon trading activity. Under the terms of the Mutual Recognition Agreement, projects in Indonesia will be able to continue or begin certification under Gold Standard for the Global Goals, subject to compliance with the approval process established by the Ministry of Environment, and all other requirements under Indonesian national law. Gold Standard and the Ministry of Environment will establish a task force responsible for coordinating implementation of the Agreement. As part of this, the two Parties will undertake further work on a number of issues, including coordination between their respective registry systems and the management of carbon credits, as well as the provision of guidance to project developers. “This Agreement cements Gold Standard’s commitment to high integrity, community‑ centred climate action,” said Margaret Kim, Gold Standard CEO. “By working hand‑-in‑-hand with Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment, we will scale up rigorous, locally empowering projects that drive real reductions in greenhouse gases.” "The signing of this MRA is proof of Indonesia's commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) target in accordance with the Paris Agreement. By aligning our SPEI system with the globally recognized Gold Standard, we are opening up greater opportunities for Indonesian projects in the international carbon market, as well as attracting investment to support better sustainable development," said Minister of Environment/Head of BPLH, Hanif Faisol Nurofiq. This MRA provides a durable framework for Gold Standard’s best practice methodologies to support Indonesia’s Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) under the Paris Agreement, while promoting local ownership, robust environmental integrity, and alignment with Indonesia’s broader development goals. This is the first MRA that the Government of Indonesia has signed with an independent standard since the adoption of its market-focused regulations in 2021. Gold Standard Newsletter Subscription Stay updated on our latest news and more. submit International Environment House II Chemin de Balexert 7-9 1219 Châtelaine, Switzerland Inform News FAQs Events Newsletters Explore Impact Registry Standard Documents SDG Impact Dashboard SDG Impact Tool Gold Standard Marketplace Assurance Platform Engage Contact Donate Consultations Work with us © Gold Standard 2025 Terms and Conditions Privacy Notice Conflict of Interest Policy Cookie Policy 

Landscape Analysis of Academic Opportunity for Specialist Carbon Market Roles - Academic institutions could support local employment in project host countries through carbon market-focused training courses = report UPDATED Apr 28, 2025 Landscape Analysis of Academic Opportunity for Specialist Carbon Market Roles Academic institutions could support local employment in project host countries through carbon market-focused training courses Authors Gold Standard team, Secretariat Greendata Download Report This new report examines how academic institutions in selected emerging and developing countries could support enhanced employment of local experts in carbon market roles through providing specialised training. The report identifies good practice examples in two countries – Germany and India – before assessing the current status of relevant academic training in ten low- and middle-income countries. Based on this analysis, it proposes a modular carbon market training curriculum which could be delivered by interested academic institutions. The report has been produced by Greendata Consulting, a carbon markets advisory company. It is part of the programme “Enabling National Ownership in a High-Integrity Carbon Market”, which is supported by the Germany Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK). Supported by Gold Standard Newsletter Subscription Stay updated on our latest news and more. submit International Environment House II Chemin de Balexert 7-9 1219 Châtelaine, Switzerland Inform News FAQs Events Newsletters Explore Impact Registry Standard Documents SDG Impact Dashboard SDG Impact Tool Gold Standard Marketplace Assurance Platform Engage Contact Donate Consultations Work with us © Gold Standard 2025 Terms and Conditions Privacy Notice Conflict of Interest Policy Cookie Policy