Organisation: Gold Standard
URL: https://www.goldstandard.org/
Page Title: We are all about impact for planet, people and nature

UPDATED Jun 24, 2025 We are all about impact for planet, people and nature Gold Standard’s helps empower governments, businesses and enterprises to take climate actions that deliver impact for people and nature. The Gold Standard 2030 Strategy charts a path forwards, blending our proven expertise with a renewed vision for a sustainable and thriving future for all. By 2030, we aim to deliver the following impact: Content Gold Standard Strategy 2025-2030 Our Values SDG Impact Dashboard Strategy renewal Value created by certified projects Since 2003 our impact includes Building up to 2030 our strategy goes beyond business as usual Our aim is to demonstrate how tackling climate pollution also catalyses access to clean energy, thriving ecosystems and contributes to improved health and gender equality. In turn these impacts help deliver economic uplift for communities around the world. Our targets are clear. By 2030, with our partners, we aim to catalyse 1 billion tonnes of CO₂e reductions, improve 100 million lives and generate $100 billion in shared value - real impact for climate, nature and people. OUR VISION Integrity in climate action delivers impact for people and nature OUR MISSION Gold Standard empowers businesses and enterprises to take climate action that delivers impact for people and nature by equipping them with the highest integrity tools and frameworks. Gold Standard Strategy 2025-2030 report Gold Standard Strategy 2025-2030 Jun 5, 2025 download Strategic objectives Our Values SDG Impact Dashboard The SDG Impact Dashboard offers open access to discover the climate and sustainable development impacts of Gold Standard-certified project in visualisations. Project supporters, investors, host country governments and project developers use the Dashboard to inform decision-making. Discover the Gold Standard SDG Impact Dashboard and find the projects you want to support in their vital work towards climate security and sustainable development for all. View Dashboard Strategy renewal After 20 years in operation Gold Standard’s ambition continues to grow. To be more responsive to the global urgency of climate change and sustainable Development, we are currently undertaking a review of our strategy. By setting our strategic direction and vision to 2030, we will enable our work to recognise and respond to changes in the environment in which we operate. With this new strategy we aim to strengthen Gold Standards global influence in encouraging highest integrity and maximized sustainable development impact. Gold Standard will continue to expand its activities to set the best practices and develop capacity for corporates, investors and governments to manage, measure and maximise their impact. To be kept up to date On Gold Standard strategy work please subscribe to our newsletter. Value created by certified projects See how is a Shared value calculated Independent reports evaluated the economic value delivered by the sustainable development contributions of a variety of Gold Standard-certified projects. The dollar values below indicate the average value created for each carbon credit issued by project type. report Valuating the benefits of improved cooking solutions Jun 14, 2019 download report The Real Value of Robust Climate Action May 15, 2014 download report Independent External Outcome and Impact Evaluation of the Gold Standard for the Global Goals Certification Program Jun 25, 2023 download report Gold Standard Market Report 2020 May 3, 2021 download report Gold Standard Market Report 2019 Mar 5, 2020 download report Gold Standard Market Report 2018 Apr 5, 2019 download Next Governance Gold Standard Newsletter Subscription Stay updated on our latest news and more. submit International Environment House II Chemin de Balexert 7-9 1219 Châtelaine, Switzerland Inform News FAQs Events Newsletters Explore Impact Registry Standard Documents SDG Impact Dashboard SDG Impact Tool Gold Standard Marketplace Assurance Platform Engage Contact Donate Consultations Work with us © Gold Standard 2025 Terms and Conditions Privacy Notice Conflict of Interest Policy Cookie Policy 

Nature Responsibility Framework: Gold Standard publishes discussion paper for companies taking responsibility for nature impacts = media release UPDATED Jun 13, 2025 Nature Responsibility Framework: Gold Standard publishes discussion paper for companies taking responsibility for nature impacts Date Jun 6, 2025 Location Paris, France Released by Gold Standard Download Media Release media contact Gold Standard , Press Office [email protected] Gold Standard publishes a framework for discussion and feedback to help organisations take responsibility for their nature impacts and make contributions to conserve, restore and manage healthy ecosystems and natural resources sustainably. The Nature Responsibility Framework, published today at Gold Standard’s Climate Action for People and Nature conference, proposes that companies take responsibility for their nature impacts, outlines how they can take action and highlights tools to deliver on their goals. The Framework helps companies cut through complexity and navigate rapidly evolving guidance. Five key responsibility areas guide users through a set of fundamental principles, actions and recommendations. Margaret Kim, CEO of Gold Standard said: “Many companies aspire to take action on nature but simply lack the direction to get started. Gold Standard’s new Nature Responsibility Framework sets the destination. We know it won’t be a straight path and we’re ready to move with companies that are committing to the journey and support them as they take real steps toward protecting and restoring nature.” The Framework is sector-agnostic and does not duplicate existing frameworks and reports. It is inspired by and builds on the work of leaders and other global standard-setters—including the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Science-Based Targets Network (SBTN), Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Business for Nature and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). It also complements Gold Standard’s existing framework “Fairly Contributing to Global Net Zero” for corporate climate mitigation strategies. The Nature Responsibility Framework offers a practical framing with clear links to existing best practice and resources for companies that are beginning their journey or are ready to deepen their commitments on nature. Gold Standard encourages anyone engaging on these topics to read the Framework and apply its guiding principles and recommendations. Feedback and discussions from this release will inform future updates, ensuring the framework aligns with leading practice and knowledge. Owen Hewlett, Chief Technical Officer of Gold Standard said: “If companies take the right actions, invest in the right solutions and ensure those solutions deliver real impact, then we can make meaningful progress in addressing the dual climate and nature emergency.” Feedback on the framework and any builds or suggestions are warmly welcomed, Please contact Dan Magrath, Manager, Corporate Responsibility [email protected] Gary Newcomer, Manager, Investor Relations [email protected] report Top 7 Actions - Nature Responsibility Framework Jun 6, 2025 download report Nature Responsibility Framework Jun 6, 2025 download Gold Standard Newsletter Subscription Stay updated on our latest news and more. submit International Environment House II Chemin de Balexert 7-9 1219 Châtelaine, Switzerland Inform News FAQs Events Newsletters Explore Impact Registry Standard Documents SDG Impact Dashboard SDG Impact Tool Gold Standard Marketplace Assurance Platform Engage Contact Donate Consultations Work with us © Gold Standard 2025 Terms and Conditions Privacy Notice Conflict of Interest Policy Cookie Policy