Organisation: Upcycled Food Association
URL: https://www.upcycledfood.org/
Page Title: FullContent

Page Title: Landing page  
Webpage Title: Upcycled Food Association and Upcycled Food Foundation  
Webpage Contents: Growing the Upcycled Food Economy Upcycled Food Association is a global membership-based trade association building a food system where all food reaches its highest and best use. Upcycled food is a way that anyone can prevent food waste via the products they buy. And it’s more important now than ever. Upcycling prevents global warming According to Project Drawdown, the global leader in ranking climate solutions, preventing food waste is the single most effective solution to prevent global warming of more than 2 degrees celsius. A lot of food is going to waste According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, over 30% of all food is wasted, about one billion tons, and one trillion dollars, per year. Food waste creates emissions According to the US Environmental Protection Agency, this waste accounts for approximately 8% of human-caused greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Food waste contributes to landfills According to the United States Department of Agriculture, food waste is the main contributor to solid waste landfills. Consumers want to reduce waste According to Mattson, 95% of consumers felt it was important to do their part to reduce food waste in their own lives. Upcycled Food Association is a global membership-based trade association supporting members across the entire supply chain. Explore membership options for your company or nonprofit as well as student or individual memberships. UFA Membership options Champion Enhanced partnership membership for companies with annual revenue of $5M+ USD Advocate Company membership for businesses with annual revenue of $5M+ USD Supporter Company membership for businesses with annual revenue under $5M (inquire about our startup discount) Nonprofit Nonprofit and academic membership Individual Individual and student membership Learn More Between 30-40% of all food produced globally is lost or goes to waste, and that's a big problem for society and the planet. Upcycled food prevents this problem by creating new, high-quality products from surplus food. 60% of people want to buy more upcycled food products, and that's because 95% of us want to do our part to reduce food waste. Join us as we build the sustainable food system of the future. JUNE 2025 is Upcycled Food Month JUNE 2025 is Upcycled Food Month JUNE 2025 is Upcycled Food Month June is UFA’s month-long celebration honoring the importance of reducing food waste, promoting sustainability, and building a better food system through raising awareness of upcycled food. ABOUT US MEET THE TEAM Upcycled Food Association (UFA) is a global membership-based trade association working to prevent food waste by accelerating the upcycled food economy, supporting hundreds of leaders internationally collaborating to empower consumers to prevent food waste with the products they buy.

Page Title: impact areas  
Webpage Title: Impact Areas — Upcycled Food Association  
Webpage Contents: Our Impact Areas UFF SciComm Learn more about Upcycled Food Foundation’s Global Scientific Research Community. Research Fellowships Upcycled Food Foundation research fellowships are dedicated to supporting evidence-based industry progress and educating consumers about the environmental and social benefits of upcycled foods. Policy & Advocacy We work to elevate and amplify the upcycled food industry by urging policymakers to support progressive policy and programs. Learn about our policy priorities, where we are advocating, and how we mobilize and represent UFA members. Food Waste Funder Circle Helping to fund the fight against food waste, the Food Waste Funder Circle is a network designed for private, public, and philanthropic funders interested in using their capital to solve food waste challenges.

Page Title: upcycled food  
Webpage Title: About Upcycled Food — Upcycled Food Association  
Webpage Contents: Upcycled Foods are Delicious, Nutritious, and Prevent Food From Being Wasted Upcycled food is the easy way for anyone to prevent food waste via the products they buy. Upcycled products prevent food waste by creating new, high quality products out of surplus food. It’s an innovative approach to food waste because it is the first consumer product-based solution, making it highly scalable and economically sustainable. Upcycling food is an ancient tradition based on the philosophy of using all of what you have. It's about doing more with less, and elevating all food to its highest and best use. Most of all, upcycled food is about reducing food waste, by creating high quality, nutritious food products out of the nutrients that slip through the cracks of our food system. But what is 'upcycled food' technically? A team of experts from Harvard Law School, Drexel University, World Wildlife Fund, Natural Resources Defense Council, ReFED, and others officially defined “upcycled food” in 2020 for use in policy, research, and more: “Upcycled foods use ingredients that otherwise would not have gone to human consumption, are procured and produced using verifiable supply chains, and have a positive impact on the environment.” To learn more about the definition of "upcycled food," watch a recording of the public webinar we held in June 2020. The task force also produced a summary paper, which explains the following definition elements: 1. Upcycled foods are made from ingredients that would otherwise have ended up in a food waste destination. According to the Food Loss and Waste Protocol, the food waste destinations are when food ends up in places like incinerators, as animal feed, in landfills, or in anaerobic digesters. By avoiding these destinations, upcycled food makes better use of the energy expended in growing, transporting, and preparing that food. 8% of human-cause greenhouse gas emissions come from food loss and waste, which is why reducing food waste is considered the single greatest solution to climate change according to Project Drawdown. 2. Upcycled foods are value-added products. Globally, we lose around $1 trillion USD per year on food that is wasted or lost. Upcycled food captures that value, and leverages it to create a sustainable and resilient food system. 3. Upcycled foods are for human consumption. Upcycled food is all about elevating food to its highest and best use. Upcycled foods are for human consumption, but upcycled ingredients could also be included in animal feed, pet food, cosmetics, home or personal care, and more. 4. Upcycled foods have an auditable supply chain. 28% of agricultural land goes to grow food that is never eaten. The auditable supply chain ensures that upcycled food is truly helping to reduce waste by utilizing all the nutrients grown on farms, helping farmers get more value out of their land. Upcycled food will help to feed a growing population without increasing deforestation or putting extra pressure on the environment. 5. Upcycled foods indicate which ingredients are upcycled on their labels. Upcycled food gives everyday people the ability to vote with their dollars to end food waste. By indicating which ingredients are upcycled, consumers know they are spending their money in a way that aligns with their values.

Page Title: upcycled certification  
Webpage Title: The Upcycled Certified Standard — Upcycled Food Association  
Webpage Contents: Certifying Upcycled Food Products & Ingredients Upcycled Certified is now part of the Where Food Comes From family of Standards! The Upcycled Certified program is designed to reduce food waste by promoting the upcycling food economy. Upcycled products use ingredients that have full nutritional value and are safe, but for various reasons, would have gone to waste. Get Upcycled Certified Find Certified Products Why do standards matter? The mission of the Upcycled Food Association is to reduce food waste by growing the upcycled economy. UFA supports ambitious sustainability certification schemes and partners with leading certifiers that uphold the definition and integrity of the upcycled foods sector. We work together to make big changes in the food industry for the better. Currently, the only third-party certification for upcycled foods globally is Upcycled Certified. Consumers should look for the Upcycled Certified mark to verify the product’s positive impact on food waste reduction. “Upcycled foods use ingredients that otherwise would not have gone to human consumption, are procured and produced using verifiable supply chains, and have a positive impact on the environment.”

Page Title: reports  
Webpage Title: Reports — Upcycled Food Association  
Webpage Contents: OUR REPORTS Q2: Quarterly Digest Read about industry trends, upcycled food breaking news, and the latest in upcycled research findings. Read More Q1: Quarterly Digest Read about industry trends, upcycled food breaking news, and UFA milestones from the first quarter of 2024. Read More 2022 Impact Report- Accelerating the Upcycled Economy 2022 was a significant year for the Upcycled Food Association - membership grew 38% and the number of Upcycled Certified® products and ingredients doubled. Together, are establishing upcycling as one of the most critical solutions in tackling the interconnected crises of food waste and climate change. Defining Upcycled Foods: A Definition for Use Across Industry, Government, and Academia Upon the founding of UFA, the Upcycled Foods Definition Task Force established a standardized, workable definition of the term “upcycled food”.

Page Title: events  
Webpage Title: Upcycled Food Association Events — Upcycled Food Association  
Webpage Contents: Let’s Connect! We’ll be participating in the following events, trade shows, webinars, and speaking engagements. We hope you can join us! IFT First 2025 Join UFA who will be walking the show visiting UFA members exhibiting. Hear the latest on a Monday, July 15, 12p PT panel: Scientific & Technical Forum: Can We Ensure Food Safety While Making Food Systems Climate-Resilient? If you’re a UFA member reach out for your 30% off registration discount code and let us know you’ll be attending! Learn more ReFED Food Waste Solutions Summit The 2025 ReFED Food Waste Solutions Summit lands in Seattle this June for three days of insights, inspiration, and action. What can you expect? Informative Sessions, Actionable Takeaways & Extensive Networking! Learn More Canadian Upcycled Food Networking Meeting Join in Ontario June 18, 2025 to connect, learn and explore new opportunities in the Canadian upcycling industry with keynote by Dr. Lara Ramdin, Emeritus Board Member. Learn more From Waste to Worth: Framing the Solution of Upcycled Food Food waste is one of the world’s most urgent - and solvable - problems. In this Upcycled Food Month webinar, we’ll break down the numbers of global food waste with industry and academic experts in environmental, economic, and social impacts, and spotlight how innovative upcycling strategies are turning waste into opportunity. Whether you're a brand, supplier, or changemaker, this is your chance to be part of the solution. Watch Now Turn Your Sustainability Efforts Into a Competitive Edge Join us for an eye-opening Upcycled Food Month webinar where you'll learn how to showcase the sustainability work your company is already doing and get the credit you deserve. Hear from UFA members Del Monte, Matriark Foods, and Planet FWD and explore how to leverage data to highlight your brand’s unique upcycled story, helping you stand out in a crowded market and attract more customers. Watch Now Webinar - #UFFSciComm Global Scientific Symposium This year-round community #UFFSciComm will kickoff with Upcycled Food Month's two-day Virtual Symposium, bringing a spotlight to bold, breakthrough research—especially from students and early-career scientists—while welcoming seasoned experts who want to share fresh insights on turning would-be waste into nutritious, market-ready ingredients. Register Here ReFED Webinar - Upcycling Food Waste: Trends & Predictions What’s happening in the upcycled food industry and what should we be looking out for as this popular food waste solution continues to grow? Get expert insights from leaders at the Upcycled Food Association, Where Food Comes From, and Pipcorn Heirloom Snacks, as they explore the latest trends, challenges, and opportunities shaping the future of upcycled food. Plus, learn more about the newly revised Upcycled Certified Standard and what it could mean for the next wave of innovation in upcycling—and in food waste reduction. Watch Now Upcycled Food Month! Upcycled Food Month is UFA’s annual awareness campaign held every June to celebrate and promote the benefits of upcycled food — food made using ingredients that would otherwise go to waste. The goal is to educate consumers, retailers, and the broader food industry about how upcycling can help fight food waste, reduce environmental impact, and build a more sustainable food system. Learn More Expo West 2025 We walked Expo West 2025 March 4-7 to connect with many members and supporters as well as UFA had a table at The Climate Collaborative’s Climate Day resource fair. We were pleased to share a 25% off badge registration discount code with UFA members. Learn more Sustainable Foods Summit North America UFA is a Supporting Organization for the Sustainable Foods Summit North America held in San Francisco from 22-23rd January 2025. Learn more RTI Climate Changes webinar series: Food Loss and Waste RTI convened USDA, USAID & UFA global experts for a discussion on integrated strategies to reduce FLW. Addressing FLW presents an opportunity for enhancing climate resilience and advancing food security, nutrition, and stronger economies. Watch Recording The Upswell: Weekly Webinars October 2024 marked five years for the Upcycled Food Association and the Upcycled Food Foundation! Watch a weekly deep dive webinar recording to explore topics across the wide world of upcycled food. Watch Recordings Webinar: Innovation From the Ground—Up! Sustainability’s Earth-Friendly Appeal How can food and beverage processors innovate and incorporate sustainable, earth-friendly attributes into the next generation of new products? Join our CEO, Amanda Oenbring, for a lively webinar panel discussion. July 31st, 2pm EDT Learn more IFT FIRST 2024 UFA participated at Chicago’s IFT FIRST show July 14-17, 2024! Learn More The State of Food Upcycling Hear UFA's origin story and highlights of its first five years alongside member stories spanning the journey of upcycling across sectors: pet products, CPG/beverage, research, ingredients, and technical innovation. June 28th, 11am PDT / 1pm EDT Watch Now Upcycled Food Foundation: Research Fellow Lightning Symposium Attendees will gain a comprehensive understanding of the latest research and innovative methodologies transforming food waste into valuable products. Each fellow will present their research in a concise, engaging format, providing insights into the processes, benefits, and sustainability impacts of upcycled food. June 27th, 8am PDT/ 11am EDT Watch Now Upcycled Happy Hour Sponsored by Planet FWD Join Upcycled Food Association at Rethink Food in NYC for a wrap-up celebration of Upcycled Food Month! This evening will follow the last day of the Summer Fancy Food. We’ll be serving upcycled light bites and beverages featuring UFA member products. Thank you to our generous sponsor, Planet FWD! Learn more Upcycling Food Waste: What Does The Future Hold? Join Upcycled Food Association, ReFED, and Where Food Comes From for a special webinar about the future of upcycling. How do we build on the recent success of this food waste solution? What challenges remain in expanding its viability? And how do we get more people to be part of the upcycling revolution? June 24th, 10 am PDT/ 1pm EDT Watch Now Summer Fancy Foods 2024: Big Ideas Stage Since our inception in 2019, the Upcycled Food Association (UFA) has witnessed significant growth in both the market and the movement, along with a heightened awareness of upcycling, both domestically within the U.S. and globally. As the UFA embarks on its fifth year and June heralds the inaugural Upcycled Food Month, hear directly from UFA's new CEO Amanda Oenbring about the real-world impact of upcycling, the current state of upcycling efforts and innovation, and what can we anticipate in the future. Summer Fancy Food, Big Idea Stage, Tuesday, June 25th 11:00 AM - 11:30 AM EDT Learn more Expo West 2024 UFA tabled at the Climate Day resource fair and connected with 50+ members across Expo West in Anaheim, CA. Learn more Archived Events ReFED Food Waste Summit 2024 UFA’s CEO, Amanda Oenbring and many UFA members attended the 2024 ReFED Food Waste Solutions Summit June 11-13, 2024 in Baltimore, MD. Learn More Upcycled Hour: Selling Your Upcycled Products to Misfits Market Hear from Misfits Market buyers to learn about their product selection process and how to be a part. Registration is exclusive to members. June 4th, 10am PDT/1pm EDT Learn More SXSW 2024: From Garbage to Gold: Transforming Food Waste into Profits In the US, 182 billion pounds of food is wasted every year. That equates to 149 billion meals and more than $444 billion wasted. Not only is this harmful for the planet, but from a business perspective, we are leaving money on the table. In this session, hear from leading food waste experts on different approaches to turning food waste into impactful products. From using more of your harvest, to upcycling food & ingredients to working with businesses and government, this session will dive into key steps to minimize food waste, maximize profits and improve the health of our planet & our people. Learn More Expo West 2023: Food Waste & Upcycling Panel Retail focused discussion designed to think into and address issues that affect retailer’s ability to meet consumers’ expectations. The panel discussion provides a behind-the-scenes look at the dynamics of upcycling and what can retailers do to support the move towards upcycling. Learn More ECRM's Sustainable Products -Food & Beverage Session UFA is excited to act as a sponsor for ECRM's Sustainable Products -Food & Beverage Session virtual event happening June 20-21. This session is 100% dedicated to connecting buyers and suppliers that are Earth-friendly, and sustainability-focused through one-on-one, pre-scheduled meetings! Buyers and sellers are paired based on categories, capabilities, and buyer objectives. UFA members will receive 25% off the registration fee. June 20-21, 2023 Learn More Can Ice Cream Save the Planet? How Upcycled Foods Serve Up a Sweet Solution to the Sticky Food Waste Problem This summer, UFA Member company, Salt & Straw, will be featuring Upcycled Certified® ingredients from fellow Member companies in their upcycling-themed ice cream menu during the month of June. These unique, specialty flavors will be offered for a limited time in Salt & Straw locations across the nation! Join us for a virtual panel discussion including UFA Members who have come together to tackle food waste by doing what they do best: upcycling would-be 'waste' into high-quality, irresistibly tasty, and environmentally friendly treats. Learn More ReFED Food Waste Summit 2023 UFA’s former CEO, Angie Crone, moderated an upcycling panel at ReFED Summit. May 17, 11-12 PM EST Learn More Summer Fancy Food Show 2023 June 25-27, 2023 New York, NY Learn more Naturally Bay Area- Quick Bites Hear UFA’s CEO, Angie Crone speak: Supply Chain as a Competitive Advantage - Opportunities in Upcycled Food Wednesday, January 11, 12 – 12:45 p.m. PT Free, Virtual Event Register Here Winter Fancy Food Show Hear UFA’s CEO, Angie Crone speak: How to Make Food Waste Tasty: Upcycled Ingredients and Products for a Sustainable Future Sunday, January 15, 2023, 1:30 p.m. Big Idea Stage, Las Vegas, NV Learn More Sustainable Foods Summit Hear UFA’s CEO, Angie Crone speak: Upcycled foods is one of the fastest growing sectors in the sustainable food industry. January 25-26, 2023 San Francisco, CA Learn More Upcycled Hour: Customer Validation & Growth Hacking James Kwon, Founder, CEO, & Lead Strategist at Figmints Digital Creative Marketing is eager to share his digital marketing expertise with those who want to hone their messaging, target key audiences, and ultimately increase sales. Tuesday, January 31, 2023, 2 p.m. EST Learn More Winter Fancy Food: How to Make Food Waste Tasty - Upcycled Ingredients and Products for a Sustainable Future Each year 108 billion pounds of food is wasted in the United States. That equates to 130 billion meals and more than $408 billion in food thrown away each year! Upcycling food - the process of transforming ingredients that would otherwise be wasted - is a way to make your specialty product more special, more sustainable and just as delicious and nutritious. Join the CEO of the Upcycled Food Association, Angie Crone, Founder and CEO of Pulp Pantry, Kaitlin Mogentale, and Brand CEO of Octonuts, Greg Nielsen for an inspiring conversation about how innovative companies are turning surplus food and byproducts into high-value, specialty food items for the modern foodie! Learn more Foodvalley Webinar: Upcycling to the Consumer Hear UFA’s CEO, Angie Crone speak: Current trends and insights on the market and consumer preferences for upcycled food. February 14, 2023 Online webinar Register Here Upcycled Hour: How to Valorize Waste Streams Valorization, or upcycling, turns waste streams into higher-value ingredients and products. Many food companies want to either valorize waste streams or include valorized ingredients in their products. But where to start? This talk will provide an overview of how to valorize waste streams and review some examples. February 23, 2023, 2 p.m. EST Register Here Upcycled Certified™ Office Hours Join UFA Certification Program Manager, Mariel Nunley, for a quarterly session focused on UFA's Upcycled Certified™ program. This casual, 30 minute session is a space dedicated to address questions about Upcycled Certified™, requirements of the program, and set expectations for brands ready to begin the process. February 28, 2023, 2 p.m. EST Register Here Natural Products Expo West Visit us in booth #5194 to explore and sample tasty upcycled food products from our members. Learn more about what it means to be Upcycled CertifiedTM . March 7-11, 2023 Anaheim Convention Center, Anaheim, CA Learn More Upcycling Challenge at Natural Products Expo West Expo West Upcycling Challenge After Party and Award Ceremony Join the Upcycling Challenge award ceremony and gather for food + fun Friday, March 10, 2023 Anaheim Convention Center, Anaheim, CA Register Here Path to Certification Workshop Series Upcycled Food Association and Where Food Comes From (Upcycled Certified™ program certifying body) are hosting our first-ever workshop series designed to clarify the Certification journey from start to finish. Join UFA and WFCF for four weekly 30-45 minute sessions on Tuesdays from March 28 - April 18 to learn more about the Upcycled Certified™ Standard, explore the benefits of certification, prepare your program paperwork and documentation, share your upcycling story with your customers and consumers, and more. Tuesday, March 28th- Tuesday, April 18th Register Here OSIFT April Meeting Featuring Mariel Nunley, Upcycled Food Association Hear UFA’s Certification Manager, Mariel Nunley speak: Learn about Upcycled Food Certification during Earth Month April 11, 5-8 PM PDT Learn More Food Waste: Challenges & Solutions Hear UFA’s CEO, Angie Crone, and other industry experts discuss how we can use innovation and ingenuity to reduce food waste. This lunchtime event will consist of a short panel followed by an opportunity to network and mingle with panelists, students, and community members. Looking forward to seeing you there! Lunch will be provided. April 12, 2023, 12 PM PDT Haas School of Business, Cheit Hall, Wells Fargo Room 2200 Piedmont Ave Berkeley, CA 94720 Learn More Naturally Network Sustainability Summit Hear UFA’s Joy Nemerson moderate Naturally Network's annual Sustainability Summit, which brings together members, advocates, experts, brands, solution seekers, and consumer product industry professionals interested in building a more sustainable and equitable consumer products industry. Apr 12, 2023 10:30 AM - 2:30 PM (GMT-5) Virtual Event Register Here Instagram LIVE with Specialty Food Association Upcycled Food Association and Specialty Food Association are going IG LIVE! Join us and hear from 3 companies that make delicious Upcycled Certified foods- Rind Snacks, Spare Food Co., and Daily Crunch. It’s going to be fun, and you won’t want to miss it! Monday, April 17th, 2023, 1 PM EST Instagram Follow Us on Instagram Upcycling: The Future of Food & Drink Ingredients Webcast Is formulating with upcycled ingredients difficult—or easy? In this webcast, experts discuss how upcycled food and drink ingredients are advancing—and the safety challenges and requirements for manufacturers working with upcycled ingredients. Hear UFA’s Certification Manager, Mariel Nunley present. Tuesday, April 25, 2023 at 1pm EST (10am PST) Register Here Stop Food Waste Day - Portland Expert speakers, local vendors, and public and private organizations come together to spotlight food waste reduction in Portland and around the world. Come have some fun and learn what we can accomplish when we make every day Stop Food Waste Day! Wednesday, April 26 · 4 - 6:30pm PDT Oregon Convention Center - OREGON BALLROOM 777 Northeast Martin Luther King Junior Boulevard OREGON BALLROOM Portland, OR 97232 Learn More Upcycling Opportunities in the Food Industry Webinar The upcycled food and beverage industry is projected to reach nearly $100 billion within a decade, with a compound annual growth rate of 5% over that period. How is upcycling – finding new, higher-value uses for items that would otherwise go to waste – impacting businesses and consumers? What’s driving the movement? And, what opportunities does upcycling offer businesses and investors? Insights provided by Paul Mariani, Managing Director of Mesirow Investment Banking, Eric Markin, Director of Mesirow Investment Banking and Angie Crone, CEO of the Upcycled Food Association. Thu, Apr 27, 2023 · 2:00 PM · Eastern Time (US & Canada) Learn More Canadian Nutrition Society Annual Conference Hear UFA’s Certification Manager, Mariel Nunley speak: Redesigning Food for Circularity: How Upcycled Foods Reduce Waste, Capture Nutrition and Tackle the Climate Crisis May 4, 2023 Learn More Food Export - How to Exhibit Are You Prepared to Represent Your Brand at Trade Shows? UFA is grateful to partner with the Food Export team to provide UFA Members with resources to aid in business development, including financial support. Food Export is eager to be involved in the upcycling movement and industry by supporting UFA Members - whether you are currently exporting or not! Register to join this virtual webinar on May 3rd to learn the basics, as well as expert tips for successful exhibiting at key industry trade shows from Food Export representative, Ron Tanner! Wednesday, May 3, 2023, 2 PM EST Learn More

Page Title: blog  
Webpage Title: Blog Articles — Upcycled Food Association  
Webpage Contents: Insights on Upcycling UFA 1/8/24 UFA 1/8/24 Savoring Sustainability: A 2024 Round-Up of Upcycled Food Trends Upcycled food is a prominent 2024 trend, supported by industry recognition, consumer eco-awareness, and endorsements from Whole Foods Market, Mintel, Specialty Food Association, Fresh Thyme Market, Vegconomist, and others. Upcycled food is positioned for substantial growth and aligns with the demand for sustainable, natural nutrition, making it a significant global movement in the new year. UFA 11/27/23 UFA 11/27/23 Upcycling elevated in recently updated US EPA Food Waste Scale Upcycling is identified as one of the most environmentally preferable pathways in the Wasted Food Scale because it can displace the need for additional food production while keeping food in the human food system, rather than treating it as waste. UFA 9/11/23 UFA 9/11/23 Upcycled Certified® and UFA Member Products Available at a Sprouts Farmers Market Near You! Looking for a yummy snack for your next road trip or potluck? Look no further than Sprouts Farmers Market, where you can find delicious Upcycled Certified® products to enhance your daily snacking and meals. UFA 6/21/23 UFA 6/21/23 UFA Partners with Specialty Food Association to Host First-Ever Upcycled Food Pavilion at Summer Fancy Food Show Experience the future of sustainable eating at the Upcycled Food Pavilion. Join us at the Summer Fancy Food Show to taste innovative Upcycled Certified® products from leading brands. Fight food waste while enjoying delicious, nutritious options. Don't miss the 'Taste the Future' event and sign the pledge at www.upcycledfood.org/upcyclingday. UFA 4/3/23 UFA 4/3/23 Navigating Certifications and Greenwashing in the Grocery Store Explore the reality of sustainability certifications and greenwashing in the food and beverage industry. Learn about the Upcycled Certified™ label as a solution to identifying sustainable products, and the importance of transparency and education in creating a more sustainable food system. UFA 3/21/23 UFA 3/21/23 Yes Whey! Spare Food’s Upcycled Tonic on Tap at Google Spare Tonic, the probiotic sparkling beverage made with upcycled whey is now available on tap at Google's Manhattan office. The Spare Food Co. tackles the problem of wasted food with a chef's perspective and its partnership with Google aligns with the company's focus on sustainability. Choose from two varieties: Cucumber Lime and Blueberry & Ginger. UFA 3/13/23 UFA 3/13/23 Upcycled Food Shows UP at Expo West The Natural Products Expo was a thrilling event, showcasing the latest and greatest in natural and organic products. The Upcycled Food Association partnered with members to showcase the endless possibilities of upcycled food. UFA 1/23/23 UFA 1/23/23 Meeting The Upcycled Supply Chain Challenge Examine the realities of upcycled food supply chains. What are upcycled entrepreneurs doing to create the future of food? UFA 1/12/23 UFA 1/12/23 Upcycled Brands You Can Buy at Target If you shop at Target, you can also find Upcycled Certified™ products that help rescue food. You can snag snacks, pet treats and cosmetics all made with upcycled ingredients! UFA 12/16/22 UFA 12/16/22 Upcycled Holiday Recipes This holiday season we put together to create the ultimate upcycled menu. From a rescued squash appetizer, sesame milk spiked potatoes, spent grain and cashew “meat” pizza, and desserts this is the sustainable and scrumptious line up to make your holidays extra special. UFA 12/2/22 UFA 12/2/22 DIY Upcycled Gift Ideas The Upcycled Food Association staff wanted to share some fun ways to gift from the heart! The best way we know how to do that is with some handmade upcycled presents. UFA 11/16/22 UFA 11/16/22 Holiday Leftovers Tips & Tricks Read More UFA 11/1/22 UFA 11/1/22 Upcycled Food Association Names Angie Crone as Interim CEO The Upcycled Food Association, and its affiliated 501(c)(3), The Upcycled Food Foundation, announced today that Angie Crone, UFA’s Head of Programs and Member Services, will become CEO of both organizations. UFA 10/17/22 UFA 10/17/22 Upcycled Foods Leave NO ONE Behind World Food Day is a time to promote and celebrate collective action that improves food production, nutrition and environmental impacts in order to generate long term, inclusive economic growth. This year’s World Food Day theme “Leave NO ONE behind,” identifies the millions of people globally who experience food insecurity. UFA 10/13/22 UFA 10/13/22 The Farmers of the Upcycled Food Movement All produce that then gets upcycled starts at one source, the farm. We recognize some of our Upcycled Food Association members to celebrate and highlight their achievements in reducing food waste. UFA 10/8/22 UFA 10/8/22 Food-focused reading list to celebrate Indigenous Peoples’ Day Celebrate Indigenous Peoples’ Day by learning about some of these remarkable food histories or by finding new ingredients and recipes to test in your kitchen. UFA 10/6/22 UFA 10/6/22 Have Your Beer and Eat it Too! Food upcycling innovators are finding ways to use food waste to power the ingredients of the future UFA 9/25/22 UFA 9/25/22 Not Your Mama’s Marinara: Matriark Launches First Carbon-Neutral Tomato Sauce Matriark Launches First Carbon-Neutral, Upcycled Tomato Sauce UFA 9/23/22 UFA 9/23/22 Zero Waste Kitchen - easy upcycled cooking ideas When striving for a zero waste kitchen the best thing to do is to start with what you have! Upcycling is an easy and delicious way to level up your cooking and lower your footprint. UFA 9/3/22 UFA 9/3/22 The circular food system and upcycled food Upcycled ingredients play an important role in creating a circular food system.