Organisation: A Greener World
URL: https://agreenerworld.org/
Page Title: FullContent

Page Title: Landing page  
Webpage Title: Find certified sustainable farms and products near you.  
Webpage Contents: A Greener World promotes verified farming practices and encourages food choices that deliver positive impacts for the environment, society and animals—whether farmed or wild. We advocate practical and positive solutions, centered on a range of trusted and transparent market-based certifications, to inspire people to spend their food dollars in ways that result in real change. Consumer Reports has rated Certified Animal Welfare Approved by AGW as the only “excellent” food label for animal welfare and verification. The only grassfed welfare label. Guarantees 100 percent grass and forage diet on pasture or range, and high-welfare management. The only non-GMO welfare label. High-welfare, environmentally sustainable farming without genetically engineered ingredients. Measuring real change in partnership to benefit soil, water, air, biodiversity, infrastructure, animal welfare and social responsibility.

Page Title: news and media  
Webpage Title: News coverage of A Greener World and its family of certifications  
Webpage Contents: A Greener World promotes verified farming practices and encourages food choices that deliver positive impacts for the environment, society and animals—whether farmed or wild. We advocate practical and positive solutions, centered on a range of trusted and transparent market-based certifications, to inspire people to spend their food dollars in ways that result in real change. AGW In the News Coverage of A Greener World and its family of world-leading certifications. Consumer Reports has rated Certified Animal Welfare Approved by AGW as the only “excellent” food label for animal welfare and verification. The only grassfed welfare label. Guarantees 100 percent grass and forage diet on pasture or range, and high-welfare management. The only non-GMO welfare label. High-welfare, environmentally sustainable farming without genetically engineered ingredients.

Page Title: farm health resources  
Webpage Title: Farm Health Online - A Greener World  
Webpage Contents: Farm Health Online is a free website for farmers, ranchers, advisors and veterinarians, offering practical advice to support high-welfare management of food animals in outdoor systems. It’s a powerful tool, giving under-resourced farmers and ranchers the practical support and guidance they need to transition towards truly sustainable, pasture-based methods of livestock production. Working in partnership with the UK’s Duchy College Rural Business School, Farm Health Online covers all aspects of health and welfare for cattle, sheep, poultry and pigs. With comprehensive information on over 100 common livestock diseases, advice on nutrition, housing, breeding and husbandry, as well as public health, biosecurity and legislation, Farm Health Online offers free and immediate access to practical, science-based advice on positive livestock management and sustainable farming practices. 

Page Title: sustainable farming magazine  
Webpage Title: Sustainable Farming is the world's leading magazine  
Webpage Contents: AGW’s Sustainable Farming magazine is the world’s leading magazine for sustainable livestock production. Published three times a year, each issue covers a wide range of topics including technical advice, animal husbandry and market developments, as well as thought-provoking articles and opinions. Sustainable Farming magazine incorporates the former AWA Newsletter. For advertising inquiries—and to request a media pack—send your contact details to [email protected] 