Organisation: Aquaculture Stewardship Council
URL: https://www.asc-aqua.org/
Page Title: Landing page

ASC International - Aquaculture Stewardship Council Find what you are looking for Search: Search Select Country ASC International ASC Belgium French Dutch ASC China ASC Netherlands ASC Australia ASC France ASC Germany, Austria, Switzerland ASC Japan ASC Brazil ASC Spain ASC North America ASC Sweden ASC Korea ASC Italy Go directly to content Seafood lovers Producers Business More about us Seafood lovers Why ASC? We set the standard for seafood. If you see the ASC label on pack, you can be sure that your seafood was farmed with care. Why choose ASC? Farmers stories About us Our impact By choosing ASC labelled seafood, you are making a proven, positive impact on people and the planet. Our impact Annual report Get involved Which seafood will you choose for dinner? We've got some suggestions. Find a recipe Learn about seafood Popular links Latest news Blog What is aquaculture? Gossip Gills Podcast Follow us and stay up to date: Producers Certification Join the most recognised certification programme as proof of your responsible farming practices to a global audience. Why choose ASC certification? Our ASC certification programmes Get ASC certified: Farms Get ASC certified: Feed mills Improver Programme Our impact ASC creates measurable positive change in global seafood farming. Our impact SDG report GIS portal Find out more The ASC programme is successful because of all producers and partners involved. Read our reports and stories. Annual report Farmers stories Popular links Find a farm Find a supplier Find a product Find a feed mill Find an AIP The ASC Farm Standard ASC Programme Centre Programme improvements Latest news Business Certification Join the most recognised certification programme and benefit from trading ASC certified seafood. Why choose ASC certified seafood? Get ASC Certified: Processors, Suppliers and Retailers Chain of Custody standard ASC Programme Assurance Our impact ASC creates measurable, positive change in global seafood farming. Our impact Annual report SDG Report After certification In addition to accessing our global network of secure and flexible supply, ASC partners benefit from marketing their ASC certified seafood. Using the label Marketing ASC labelled seafood Popular links Find a farm Find a supplier Find a product Find a feed mill Find an AIP The ASC Farm Standard ASC Programme Centre Programme improvements Partners and Supporters Latest news Seafood lovers Producers Business About ASC About ASC Governance Funding and Finances Work with us Partners and Supporters News and stories News Blog Gossip Gills Podcast Events Farmers Stories Press centre Press office In the media Programme The ASC Farm Standard Human Rights in aquaculture Programme improvements SDG Report For certifiers Provide input Completed projects ASC International Setting The Standard for Seafood Seafood is a nutritious protein source and a key but undervalued component of global food security. With declining outputs from land-based food production and general land and freshwater scarcity, it plays an essential role. The Power of Seafood 3.3bn* people rely on seafood for at least 20% of animal protein consumption 400 – 600 million people are involved with the seafood sector, directly and indirectly.* The importance of farming seafood responsibly With the population estimated to reach 10 billion by 2050, and with wild-caught fisheries at capacity, the importance of seafood farming will continue to grow. However, care must be taken to limit the industry’s negative impacts. Seafood farming already: Produces almost 60% of the seafood consumed globally Provides direct employment for over 22 million people Delivers socio-economic benefits to tens of thousands of communities. Responsible seafood farming: Cares for people and planet by easing pressure on natural resources Protecting precious ecosystems Promoting economic opportunities Addressing food security challenges and fulfils a crucial link in the circular economy. * Data ref: UN Fisheries Panel (COFI36): Aquaculture as a solution to food insecurity, malnutrition and poverty As an impact-driven organisation, ASC focuses on accelerating the transformation of the seafood farming industry towards sustainability through our world-leading farmed seafood certification programmes. Seafood lovers Seafood lovers choose the ASC label because they can trust that their seafood has been farmed with care. Read more Producer hub Producers choose the ASC programme for greater access to global market demand. Learn more about our ASC standards and find out how to apply for certification. Read more Business hub Businesses choose the ASC programme for ASC’s highly-recognised and trusted label. Explore Chain of Custody certification and see our services for partners. Read more Collaborating for impact Every ASC certified farm and ASC labelled product takes us closer to the sustainable transformation of seafood farming. 2,371 ASC certified farm sites making positive changes to fish, farm, people and planet 29,994 ASC labelled products on shelves in supermarkets around the world 126 countries with ASC labelled products available to seafood lovers 43 ASC certified feed mills producing feed with responsibly sourced ingredients 2,371 ASC certified farm sites making positive changes to fish, farm, people and planet 29,994 ASC labelled products on shelves in supermarkets around the world 126 countries with ASC labelled products available to seafood lovers 43 ASC certified feed mills producing feed with responsibly sourced ingredients All changes – big and small – made by ASC certified farms contribute to the sustainable transformation of seafood farming. Find out how we measure their impact Tales from the farms Meet the responsible seafood farmers proudly demonstrating their commitment to responsible farming practices. See all stories Salmon A salmon farm is helping to revive a remote community in Scotland: meet Rosie, a responsible salmon farmer. Read more Shrimp Nuturing nature and local people: the story of a responsible shrimp farmer in Ecuador. Read more Seabream ASC certification has opened the doors to a Michelin-starred restaurant for a Croatian seabass and seabream farm. Read more Latest news Read the latest ASC and aquaculture news. See all news Nominations Open For MSC And ASC Awards 2025 Read more Victory Farms Joins Improver Programme by ASC, Setting Benchmark for Tilapia Farming in Africa Read more ASC Champions Transformation in Shrimp Farming at Global Shrimp Forum 2025 Read more Sign up to our newsletter Contact us Seafood lovers Why choose ASC? About ASC Our impact Annual Impacts Report Farmers stories Find a recipe Learn about seafood Producers Why choose ASC certification? Our ASC Standards Get certified: producers Improver Programme GIS portal Business Why choose ASC certified seafood? Get Certified: Business Chain of Custody standard Our assurance Using the label Marketing certified seafood About ASC About ASC Governance Funding and Finances Careers Vacancies Fish Welfare and ASC Imagery Netherlands Aquaculture Stewardship Council Daalseplein 101 3511 SX Utrecht The Netherlands Chamber of commerce number: 34389683 United Kingdom Aquaculture Stewardship Council Limited 27 Old Gloucester Street London, WC1N 3AX The ASC is a charity registered in England and Wales no 1150418. A non-profit making company limited by guarantee. Registered in England no 08172832. The ASC logo is a registered trademark. VAT number GB184514206 Privacy Policy © Stichting Aquaculture Stewardship Council Foundation, 2010 - 2025