Organisation: The Vegan Society
URL: https://www.vegansociety.com/
Page Title: benefits of veganism page

Why go vegan? | The Vegan Society | Skip to main content Donate Join Members' Area News News Blog Events Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Life stages Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join Why go vegan? You are here Home » Go Vegan » Why go vegan? Explore why veganism is kinder to animals, to people and to our planet's future For the animals Preventing the exploitation of animals is not the only reason for becoming vegan, but for many it remains the key factor in their decision to go vegan and stay vegan. Having emotional attachments with animals may form part of that reason, while many believe that all sentient creatures have a right to life and freedom. Specifics aside, avoiding animal products is one of the obvious ways you can take a stand against animal cruelty and animal exploitation everywhere. Read a detailed overview on why being vegan demonstrates true compassion for animals. Find out more about going vegan for the animals. For your health Well-planned vegan diets follow healthy eating guidelines, and contain all the nutrients that our bodies need. Both the British Dietetic Association and the American Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics recognise that they are suitable for every age and stage of life. Some research has linked that there are certain health benefits to vegan diets with lower blood pressure and cholesterol, and lower rates of heart disease, type 2 diabetes and some types of cancer. Going vegan is a great opportunity to learn more about nutrition and cooking, and improve your diet. Getting your nutrients from plant foods allows more room in your diet for health-promoting options like whole grains, fruit, nuts, seeds and vegetables, which are packed full of beneficial fibre, vitamins and minerals. Find out more about going vegan for your health. For the environment From recycling our household rubbish to cycling to work, we're all aware of ways to live a greener life. One of the most effective things an individual can do to lower their carbon footprint is to avoid all animal products. This goes way beyond the problem of cow flatulence and air pollution! Why is meat and dairy so bad for the environment? The production of meat and other animal derived products places a heavy burden on the environment. The vast amount of grain feed required for meat production is a significant contributor to deforestation, habitat loss and species extinction. In Brazil alone, the equivalent of 5.6 million acres of land is used to grow soya beans for animals in Europe. This land contributes to developing world malnutrition by driving impoverished populations to grow cash crops for animal feed, rather than food for themselves. On the other hand, considerably lower quantities of crops and water are required to sustain a vegan diet, making the switch to veganism one of the easiest, most enjoyable and most effective ways to reduce our impact on the environment. For more on how veganism is the way forward for the environment, see our environment section. Find out more about going vegan for the environment. For people Just like veganism is the sustainable option when it comes to looking after our planet, plant-based living is also a more sustainable way of feeding the human family. A plant-based diet requires only one third of the land needed to support a meat and dairy diet. With rising global food and water insecurity due to a myriad of environmental and socio-economic problems, there's never been a better time to adopt a more sustainable way of living. Avoiding animal products is not just one of the simplest ways an individual can reduce the strain on food as well as other resources, it's the simplest way to take a stand against inefficient food systems which disproportionately affect the poorest people all over the world. Read more about how vegan diets can help people. Start your vegan journey today by downloading our VeGuide app. You can also join The Vegan Society by completing our quick and simple online form. As a registered charity we rely on our members, and we are so grateful to everyone who supports us. For just £2 a month, your membership will go towards helping us to spread the word of veganism and create a world where animals are free to exist in their own right. In return you’ll receive access to over one hundred vegan discounts, our quarterly magazine, exclusive competitions and more! Why vegetarian isn't enough The suffering caused by the dairy and egg industry is possibly less well publicised than the plight of factory farmed animals. The production of dairy products necessitates the death of countless male calves that are of no use to the dairy farmer, as well as the premature death of cows slaughtered when their milk production decreases. Similarly, in egg production, even 'ethical' or 'free range' eggs involve the killing of the 'unnecessary' male chicks when just a day old. Ethical meat? It's tempting to want to believe that the meat we eat is ethical, that our 'food animals' have lived full, happy lives and that they have experienced no pain or fear at the slaughterhouse. Yet the sad truth is that all living creatures fear death, just as we do. No matter how they are treated when alive, whether they are raised on a factory farm, or labelled as 'free range' or 'organic', they all experience the same fear when it comes to slaughter. The good news The good news is there IS something we can do about it. Every time we shop or order food in a restaurant - every time we eat - we can choose to help these animals. Every time we make the switch from an animal product to a vegan alternative we are standing up for farmed animals everywhere. Going vegan is easier than ever before with veganism becoming increasingly mainstream as more and more people from all walks of life discover the benefits of living this way. It's time to ask ourselves: if it is now possible to live a life that involves delicious food and drink, delivers better health, leaves a smaller carbon footprint and avoids killing other creatures - then why don't we? Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Sign-up for our newsletter Join our newsletter to receive monthly competitions, offers and information on all things vegan. Join Twitter Facebook Google Plus You Tube Instagram Contact Us Media About Us Site Map Privacy & Cookie Policy Jobs Reg. Charity No: 279228 (England and Wales) and SC049495 (Scotland) | Company Reg. No: 01468880 and 12377572 (England and Wales) | VAT Registration No. 361 7274 92 Copyright © 1944 - 2022 The Vegan Society Reg. Charity No: 279228 Company Reg. No: 01468880 Copyright © 1944 - 2025 The Vegan Society News News Blog Events Past events Submit an event Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Treatment of animals Worldwide growth of veganism Environment and sustainability Business and food sales The Vegan Trademark Health Beauty and household Fashion and textiles Families and children Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? About the Veganalyser The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge Pledge testimonials VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Play Fair with Plant Milk Our campaign work so far Plant milk discrimination Share your experience of plant milk discrimination Help us change these discriminatory initiatives Conscious Choices Live Vegan for Less Blogs Recipe Hub Cost Comparison Research Catering for Everyone Vegan and Thriving Vegan & Thriving Recipes The Facts What Health Professionals Say Get Involved Thriving stories Perfect pairings Vegan Vote Climate Emergency Grow Green For campaigners For policy-makers For farmers Veganuary Vegan on the Go Planes Trains Make more medicines vegan The Future is Vegan Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Grant application form FAQs Working with the media Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System Fix food and farming What should our food strategy look like? How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do veg