Organisation: The Vegan Society
URL: https://www.vegansociety.com/
Page Title: environment page

Go vegan for the environment | The Vegan Society | Skip to main content Donate Join Members' Area News News Blog Events Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Life stages Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join Go vegan for the environment You are here Home » Go Vegan » Why go vegan? » Go vegan for the environment How your diet could change the world While the world’s population has doubled since the 1960s, world meat production has quadrupled. In certain areas, livestock production has increased massively; there are now 4 and a half times as many tonnes of pig produced in 2013 compared to 1961, while world chicken production has increased by nearly 13 times. These harrowing numbers are growing. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations predicts that by 2050 world meat production will have almost doubled, as the Western taste for meat, eggs and dairy products continues to grow (along with our waistlines). This trend will continue to contribute to global warming, widespread pollution, deforestation, land degradation, water scarcity and species extinction. More animals mean more crops are needed to feed them: the planet cannot feed both increasing human and farmed animal populations, especially when there will be between 2-4 billion more human mouths to feed by 2050. If we are trying to reduce our car use, limit the amount of water we waste, become more ‘energy-efficient’ and generally lessen our environmental impact, we must also examine the most important factor of our personal ecological footprint: what we eat. Start your vegan journey today by downloading our VeGuide app. You can also join The Vegan Society by completing our quick and simple online form. As a registered charity we rely on our members, and we are so grateful to everyone who supports us. For just £2 a month, your membership will go towards helping us to spread the word of veganism and create a world where animals are free to exist in their own right. In return you’ll receive access to over one hundred vegan discounts, our quarterly magazine, exclusive competitions and more! Vegan and plant-based diets use less resources Food (and land) security is becoming a major issue. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that one in nine people are chronically undernourished. With the world’s population expected to increase from 7 billion to reach 9-11 billion by 2050, one of the most urgent questions we now face is how we, as a species, will feed ourselves in the 21st century. Even if we tackled the economic forces that ultimately cause the unfair allocation of resources, land availability would still be one of the main constraints on mass food production. The Earth has only a limited area of viable agricultural land; how this land is used is central to our ability to feed the world. This is particularly important given how desertification and other ecological issues brought on by climate change continue to reduce the quantity and the quality of the world's arable land. Meat-heavy, Westernised diets are a waste of resources we desperately need to conserve. This is because farmed animals consume much more protein, water and calories than they 'produce'. Most of the protein from vegetable feed is used for the animal’s bodily functions and not 'converted' to meat, eggs or milk. How your diet can help Quite simply, we do not have enough land to feed a growing population an animal-based diet. While 800 million people do not have enough food, we continue to waste valuable agricultural land by obtaining only a small fraction of its potential calorific value. The world’s population is increasing and viable agricultural lands are diminishing. If we are to avoid future global food scarcity we must find sustainable ways of utilising our natural resource base. Industrial livestock production is not just unsustainable; it's unjustifiable. Vegans use less water globally The world will only have 60% of the water it needs by 2030 without significant global policy change, according to a recent report from the U.N. This situation is predicted to worsen as our population expands and consumption per capita increases with more and more people adopting resource-intensive Western meat eating habits. How your diet can help use less water Although statistics vary, it is safe to say that it takes at least three times the amount of water to feed a meat eater compared with that used to feed a vegan. For example, it takes 15,500 litres of water to produce 1 kg beef, contrasted with 180 litres for 1 kg tomatoes and 250 litres for 1 kg potatoes. Consuming animal products is incredibly resource-intensive. Globally, farming uses about 70% of the planet’s accessible freshwater. This is compared to around 20% for industry, and about 10% for domestic use. This is largely because arable land has to be irrigated to make it agriculturally viable and to increase and improve crop yields. As has been shown, much of this land is entirely wasted by growing feed crops for livestock rather than food for direct consumption by people. The water used on this land – as well as that consumed direct by livestock – represents yet another wasted resource. Since a large percentage of the crops fed to European farmed animals are grown in developing countries, this wasted water comes not only from European reserves but also from the very countries where drinking water is most scarce. Switching to a vegan diet will help significantly reduce the world’s water requirements. Water pollution Agriculture is also the number one water polluter. Slurry from cattle and other livestock pollutes groundwater, streams and rivers. The livestock sector is probably the largest sectoral source of water pollution. Manure and slurry contain high levels of nitrogen and phosphor. These elements can leach into groundwater and run off to pollute lakes, killing the fish and endangering the health of other animals. Ammonia is also given off and can cause acid rain. Demand for animal feed is one of the major reasons behind the intensification of crop production. Stop the demand – go vegan! Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Sign-up for our newsletter Join our newsletter to receive monthly competitions, offers and information on all things vegan. Join Twitter Facebook Google Plus You Tube Instagram Contact Us Media About Us Site Map Privacy & Cookie Policy Jobs Reg. Charity No: 279228 (England and Wales) and SC049495 (Scotland) | Company Reg. No: 01468880 and 12377572 (England and Wales) | VAT Registration No. 361 7274 92 Copyright © 1944 - 2022 The Vegan Society Reg. Charity No: 279228 Company Reg. No: 01468880 Copyright © 1944 - 2025 The Vegan Society News News Blog Events Past events Submit an event Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Treatment of animals Worldwide growth of veganism Environment and sustainability Business and food sales The Vegan Trademark Health Beauty and household Fashion and textiles Families and children Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? About the Veganalyser The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge Pledge testimonials VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Play Fair with Plant Milk Our campaign work so far Plant milk discrimination Share your experience of plant milk discrimination Help us change these discriminatory initiatives Conscious Choices Live Vegan for Less Blogs Recipe Hub Cost Comparison Research Catering for Everyone Vegan and Thriving Vegan & Thriving Recipes The Facts What Health Professionals Say Get Involved Thriving stories Perfect pairings Vegan Vote Climate Emergency Grow Green For campaigners For policy-makers For farmers Veganuary Vegan on the Go Planes Trains Make more medicines vegan The Future is Vegan Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Grant application form FAQs Working with the media Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System Fix food and farming What should our food strategy look like? How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Protein Calcium Iron Vitamin B12 Omega-3 fat Iodine Selenium Zinc Vitamin A Vitamin D Vitamin K VEG 1 nutrition FAQs What Every Vegan Should Know About Vitamin B12 Life stages Pregnancy and breastfeeding Under-fives 5-10 year olds 11-18 year olds Older adults Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Advertise with us Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Lesson Resources Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Blogs and news Vegan Trademark standards Alternatives to animal testing Vegan Trademark events Past events FAQs Vegan Trademark insights hub Trademarked products search Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join