Organisation: The Vegan Society
URL: https://www.vegansociety.com/
Page Title: fashion page

Vegan Fashion | Vegan Clothes | Vegan Makeup | Vegan Haircare | Skip to main content Donate Join Members' Area News News Blog Events Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Life stages Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join Fashion You are here Home » Lifestyle » Fashion Compassion in fashion In a vegan society, the fashion industry, like all other industries, would be animal-free. With gorgeous alternatives to leather, suede, fur, wool, pearls, and silk readily available at a great price, it’s time for vegans to lead the way in a new trend. Out with the old... and in with the new! If you're a keen fashionista, veganism should be right up your street. There are plenty of options, whether you're looking for winter boots, comfortable yet smart shoes, or stilettos with heels so high they should only be worn in taxis. And you don't have to go to specialist shops: check out our article on vegan shoes for more. Make the call More and more vegan clothing retailers are popping up online, while existing retailers are offering up vegan alternatives to gothic leather jackets, walking boots and more. If you’re wondering whether your favourite designer or retail store has a vegan range, why not call up and ask? The more we demonstrate demand, the more likely it is companies will provide us with increased vegan options. In the meantime, most mainstream high street stores offer wool-free cardigans and non-leather jackets, so you don't have to jump for the expensive option. Get the vegan look Look for products with the Vegan Trademark, the international mark guaranteeing no animal products and no animal testing carried out on behalf of the manufacturer. You can use our Vegan Trademark search to find vegan products. Why not buy your next pair of fashionable items from fashionistas Grendene and their brands, Blowfish Malibu or FreeRangers, along with a stylish bag from Monsoon's Accessorize? Easy vegan fashion? It’s possible, it’s affordable and completely ethical if you know where to look. The good news is that many brands are already using alternatives to leather, fur and wool. The bad news is that it can be hard to find them. If you’ve ever spent hours searching among labels to find your perfect wool-free cardigan, it’s time to contact the company and ask them to register their products with the Vegan Trademark. This will also work if the company currently do not offer anything vegan: let’s demonstrate demand! If you’re just looking for cheap vegan-friendly clothing, remember your local high street shop will offer non-animal derived alternatives: just check the label. Our article on vegan-friendly shoes in high street shops may help. Lifestyle Nutrition and health Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Shopping Social Travel Publications and video Family Vegan-Inclusive Education Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Uncovering the Parallels: Bioessentialism, Queer Identity and the Denial of Animal Sentience Exploring the intersections of prejudice and pseudoscience. (Read more) Building Compassionate Communities: Volunteering with The Vegan Society’s Community Network Volunteering Coordinator, Katy Malkin, highlights the impact of The Vegan Society’s Community Network across the UK.... (Read more) Sign-up for our newsletter Join our newsletter to receive monthly competitions, offers and information on all things vegan. Join Twitter Facebook Google Plus You Tube Instagram Contact Us Media About Us Site Map Privacy & Cookie Policy Jobs Reg. Charity No: 279228 (England and Wales) and SC049495 (Scotland) | Company Reg. No: 01468880 and 12377572 (England and Wales) | VAT Registration No. 361 7274 92 Copyright © 1944 - 2022 The Vegan Society Reg. Charity No: 279228 Company Reg. No: 01468880 Copyright © 1944 - 2025 The Vegan Society News News Blog Events Past events Submit an event Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Treatment of animals Worldwide growth of veganism Environment and sustainability Business and food sales The Vegan Trademark Health Beauty and household Fashion and textiles Families and children Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? About the Veganalyser The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge Pledge testimonials VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Play Fair with Plant Milk Our campaign work so far Plant milk discrimination Share your experience of plant milk discrimination Help us change these discriminatory initiatives Conscious Choices Live Vegan for Less Blogs Recipe Hub Cost Comparison Research Catering for Everyone Vegan and Thriving Vegan & Thriving Recipes The Facts What Health Professionals Say Get Involved Thriving stories Perfect pairings Vegan Vote Climate Emergency Grow Green For campaigners For policy-makers For farmers Veganuary Vegan on the Go Planes Trains Make more medicines vegan The Future is Vegan Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Grant application form FAQs Working with the media Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System Fix food and farming What should our food strategy look like? How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Protein Calcium Iron Vitamin B12 Omega-3 fat Iodine Selenium Zinc Vitamin A Vitamin D Vitamin K VEG 1 nutrition FAQs What Every Vegan Should Know About Vitamin B12 Life stages Pregnancy and breastfeeding Under-fives 5-10 year olds 11-18 year olds Older adults Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Advertise with us Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Lesson Resources Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Blogs and news Vegan Trademark standards Alternatives to animal testing Vegan Trademark events Past events FAQs Vegan Trademark insights hub Trademarked products search Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join