Organisation: The Vegan Society
URL: https://www.vegansociety.com/
Page Title: Landing page

The Vegan Society | Skip to main content Donate Join Members' Area News News Blog Events Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Life stages Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join Article Visit our exhibition Visit our free exhibition at the Library of Birmingham from Saturday 17 May to Saturday 23 August. Article Our Impact Read Our Impact 2024 report to see the difference our work is making. Campaign The Future is Vegan Together, let’s build a vegan future. News World’s Biggest-Ever Vegan Exhibition To Be Held In Birmingham Birmingham-based charity, The Vegan Society, celebrates its 80th year with an interactive exhibition, Veganism: Past, Present and Future. Blog What’s Next for Vegan Beauty? How innovation, ethics and sustainability are reshaping the cosmetics industry. Join The Vegan Society. To change society. Support our work, get helpful nutrition guidance and access over 100 member-exclusive discounts. Sign up from just £2 a month. Join From £2 a month Latest News & Blogs Blog Uncovering the Parallels: Bioessentialism, Queer Identity and the Denial of Animal Sentience Exploring the intersections of prejudice and pseudoscience. Blog 10 Ways to repurpose your VEG 1 tins This summer, we're urging you to get creative and give repurposing a go, starting with your empty VEG 1 tins. Blog Vegan medical nutrition: new innovations An update on how the company AYMES, along with our Trademark Team, have expanded their range of medical nutrition products suitable for vegans. Get Involved Campaign Planting Value in the Food System We've launched a new report showcasing our vision for a fairer food future. Visit the report website to explore the ideas and download the report. Article Volunteering There are a variety of ways to volunteer with us to help us promote veganism worldwide. Campaign Live Vegan for Less Vegan living doesn’t need to break the bank – use our tips and recipes to enjoy tasty meals on a budget. Sign-up for our newsletter Join our newsletter to receive monthly competitions, offers and information on all things vegan. Join