Organisation: The Vegan Society
URL: https://www.vegansociety.com/
Page Title: statistics page

Vegan Statistics | Vegan Fashion | Vegan Fashion Industry | Skip to main content Donate Join Members' Area News News Blog Events Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Life stages Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join Fashion and textiles You are here Home » News » Media » Statistics » Fashion and textiles Please find below a selection of statistics about fashion and textiles, both in the UK and around the world. Disclaimer: this is a collation of third-party sources about topics connected to veganism. Some of the links are not to the original sources; we are sharing them to help journalists or researchers with their research and because they may form a helpful starting point. General Fashion Statistics Behavioural changes As of 2025, at least 25 countries have a full or partial ban on fur farming. One country (Israel) and 17 US cities have bans on the sale of fur completely. Source In 2021, The Vegan Society reported 48% of British shoppers want more vegan items across all fashion categories and 74% would be willing to pay more for plant-based leathers. There are many more statistics available within the report. Source In 2021, The Vegan Society found that 61.4% of British shoppers thought fur was cruel, and 32.5% said it was outdated. Source In 2020, a YouGov opinion poll revealed 93% of Brits rejected wearing animal fur and the majority (72%) support a complete ban on the sale of fur in the UK. The words that people most closely associate with a fashion brand selling fur are "unethical", "outdated", "cruel" and "out of touch". Source In 2020, Mintel reported that 57% of British shoppers are trying to make more ethical fashion choices, rising to 68% for 16–24-year-olds. Source Vegan products and business In 2025, Future Market Insights found that global vegan footwear market was valued at USD 34,752.1 million. Between 2025 and 2035, the market is expected to grow with an annual growth rate of 7.2%, year on year and to reach USD 71,625.1 million by 2035. Source In March 2025, Statista forecast the vegan footwear market to reach 30 billion USD in the USA by 2030. Source In May 2024, Venuez reported that nearly 150 clothing brands are working with the Sustainable Apparel Coalition which promote environmentally-friendly and often plant-based materials. Source In September 2024, Statista forecast that the women's vegan fashion market is set to reach 1 trillion USD in the USA by 2028. Source In 2022, Data Bridge Market Research found the Global Bio-Based Leather Market was valued at $1,6530,000 million in 2021 and was expected to reach $3,5952,210 million by 2029. Source Vogue reported that in 2019, the stock of vegan fashion products increased by 258% across the UK and US. Source In January 2022, the Vegan Trademark has over 6,500 fashion items certified, including accessories, bags, footwear, clothing and sportswear from all-vegan, high street and luxury brands. The first vegan fashion items registered with the Vegan Trademark were by Freerangers in 1999, who registered 12 footwear and accessory items between 1999 and 2002. Source In March 2021, an Oxford University graduate student created vegan leather from succulents. The material is meant to biodegrade in 100 days when buried, which is supposedly unmatched compared to competitors. Source In 2021, Eurofins Chem-MAP registered with the Vegan Trademark – this is the first testing and auditing service specifically developed for testing apparel and footwear as vegan. Source In 2019, New Look became the first high street retailer in the UK to register with the Vegan Trademark, with a collection of 436 products. This makes up 60% of their available footwear and bags, with plans to increase the proportion of vegan products in the coming years. Source Designer, luxury, and high-end brands In March 2021, the first-ever clothing item made from mushroom leather was released by Stella McCartney. Source In April 2021, fashion house Karl Lagerfeld announced it is launching its first vegan cactus leather bag. Source In April 2021, Fossil announced they are launching a range of vegan bags made from cacti. Source In June 2021, Hermès announced that they are creating a bag with a fabric made from fungus. Source In June 2021, Gucci launched a range of vegan shoes made from wood pulp. Source Popular and high street brands Popular fashion brands with the Vegan Trademark include Superdry, Gola, New Look, George at Asda, Kurt Geiger, Accessorize and Grenson Shoes. Sources [1][2][3][4][5][6][7] Many of Accessorize’s best-selling bags and accessories are now registered as vegan under the Vegan Trademark. Source In March 2021, fashion giant H&M announced they are launching a collection using cactus leather. Source In April 2021, Reebok announced the launch of their vegan running shoes. Source In April 2021, Adidas announced they are launching a new range of their iconic Stan Smith sneakers made from vegan mushroom leather. Source Kurt Geiger’s Spring/Summer 2021 collection launched with 55 styles of vegan footwear for men and women, including vegan leather and vegan suede, all registered with the Vegan Trademark. Source As of July 2020, all of George at Asda’s ladies’ bags were registered as vegan under the Vegan Trademark standards. Source In 2020, Tommy Hilfiger launched two sneakers made from recycled apple peel fibres. The fabric was developed by Frumat, which reinvents apple waste from the Italian food industry. In 2019, the label also teamed up with Lewis Hamilton for a vegan streetwear collection. Source In 2019, Hugo Boss launched a line of men’s trainers using pineapple plant fibres. Source News News Blog Events Past events Submit an event Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Treatment of animals Worldwide growth of veganism Environment and sustainability Business and food sales The Vegan Trademark Health Beauty and household Fashion and textiles Families and children Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? About the Veganalyser The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge Pledge testimonials VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Play Fair with Plant Milk Our campaign work so far Plant milk discrimination Share your experience of plant milk discrimination Help us change these discriminatory initiatives Conscious Choices Live Vegan for Less Blogs Recipe Hub Cost Comparison Research Catering for Everyone Vegan and Thriving Vegan & Thriving Recipes The Facts What Health Professionals Say Get Involved Thriving stories Perfect pairings Vegan Vote Climate Emergency Grow Green For campaigners For policy-makers For farmers Veganuary Vegan on the Go Planes Trains Make more medicines vegan The Future is Vegan Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Grant application form FAQs Working with the media Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System Fix food and farming What should our food strategy look like? How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Protein Calcium Iron Vitamin B12 Omega-3 fat Iodine Selenium Zinc Vitamin A Vitamin D Vitamin K VEG 1 nutrition FAQs What Every Vegan Should Know About Vitamin B12 Life stages Pregnancy and breastfeeding Under-fives 5-10 year olds 11-18 year olds Older adults Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Advertise with us Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Lesson Resources Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Blogs and news Vegan Trademark standards Alternatives to animal testing Vegan Trademark events Past events FAQs Vegan Trademark insights hub Trademarked products search Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join