Organisation: The Vegan Society
URL: https://www.vegansociety.com/
Page Title: vegan trademark page

The Vegan Trademark | Trusted Vegan Labelling | Business | Skip to main content Donate Join Members' Area News News Blog Events Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Life stages Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join The Vegan Trademark You are here Home » Vegan Trademark » The Vegan Trademark Trusted vegan labelling by the Vegan Trademark. The Vegan Trademark is an internationally recognised vegan product certification, established in 1990 by The Vegan Society, and has been helping make vegan products more accessible ever since. Registration with the trademark gives brands the confidence to shout about their vegan credentials. Look out for the Vegan Trademark on over 70,000 certified vegan products across the world, including cosmetics, clothing, food, drink, household items, and many more! Collaborations FAQs Report Misuse Know your industry? Cosmetics, Household and Toiletries Food, Drink and Supplements Supermarkets Fashion and Textiles Benefits of the Vegan Trademark Globally trusted registrations 86% of those that are vegan and plant-based in the US and UK think it’s important for vegan products to be certified by a third party and 79.2% would be likely to pay more for a product with visible certification compared to one without. [1] The Vegan Trademark is the most trusted and recognised vegan certification in the UK. [1] Find the trademark on over 70,000 products, in 65+ countries. We’re the leaders in bespoke vegan product registrations. Leave it to the experts Stay focused on what you do best - creating products! Leave the hard work of vegan verification to us. Our team of vegan experts ensure we always uphold the highest standards of quality. Let us become your partner in all things vegan - we work with you as the authority on third party vegan accreditation. Simple and guided process Our dedicated team helps every step of the way. We tailor quotes to company size and the number of products to ensure there are affordable options for businesses of all sizes, from small start-ups to large conglomerates. No cost surprises in choosing us. We include product updates and additions within your product package. We register products, which allows non-vegan brands to grow with us as they develop new vegan-friendly products to their ranges. Vegan market insights The most trusted global charity for all things vegan - we have popular vegan channels to promote your products on. Our network of vegan publications, PR, and other vegan charities allows for joint launch campaigns. Gain access to a wealth of knowledge, market insights and exposure you won’t find anywhere else. Access to relevant marketing opportunities in our Toolkit, helping you promote your products once registered. Sources: [1] Attest surveys completed online for The Vegan Society of 1000 UK and 1000 US primarily non-meat eating adults in November 2023 Current Vegan Trademark Holders The Vegan Trademark has so many products registered from a range of brands; we couldn't possibly show everyone here. We do regularly update this area so you can see who is expanding their vegan offering and you can also check out our Product Search. We pride ourselves on the support we give to those who register with the Trademark wherever we can, and we love getting feedback! Our Impact The Vegan Society works with thousands of brands to diligently ensure that the products registered with us can proudly display the Vegan Trademark. Not only do we pride ourselves on our high standard of customer service, but also the impact we know each brand registering with us has to make veganism more accessible to everyone. According to Attest surveys completed online for The Vegan Society of 1000 UK and 1000 US primarily non-meat eating adults in November 2023, 89% look for vegan certification logos on the packaging and/or promotional material when buying food and drink products for the first time. This just goes to show how essential it is for companies to get certified vegan to instill customer trust, stand out in the vegan market and make their vegan products accessible to all. The Vegan Trademark works with a company's manufacturers and supply chain to look at the individual ingredients in the production line to ensure that the finished product meets our high standards. For a product to be registered with the Vegan Trademark it needs to meet our standards of no animal derived ingredients or by-products used in the production. This includes no animal-testing (at the initiative of the company or on its behalf, or by parties over whom the company has effective control), and management processes in place to avoid cross-contamination, as well as looking at all the ingredients to ensure they don't include any animal-derived ingredients. The Vegan Trademark register individual products, not companies, so brands can register their vegan options with the trademark even if not all their products would be suitable for certification. The Vegan Trademark team of experts are here to share their knowledge with your company to ensure you can shout about your vegan credentials with confidence. Alongside using the Vegan Trademark certification on your packaging, product and promotions to increase your brands credible brand awareness in the vegan marketplace there are other additional benefits that come with vegan certification which include: discounted advertising opportunities with our partners, increased product exposure through social media promotion on our channels, opportunities to join us at events and trade shows and be involved in charity campaigns. See what some of the companies that work with us have to say: New Look "New Look is thrilled to have the Vegan Trademark on over 60% of our footwear and bags. Having launched our Vegan range in August 2019, we believe this is a step in the right direction for veganism. New Look is committed to its work with The Vegan Society to increase this further as we head into the new decade. We want to make vegan fashion affordable and accessible for our customers, and we understand the vegan lifestyle is about much more than food and cosmetics." Gola "Partnering with The Vegan Society has given the Gola vegan collection great credibility globally. The whole approval process has been straightforward, and the team is great to work with." Original Source "Original Source has been registered with the Vegan Society since 2003. Our shared values and love of animals make us proud to carry the Vegan logo on all our bottles. It has become an integral part of our brands identity." Burger King "The Vegan Society offered us invaluable guidance on how we could prepare and cook an entirely vegan version of a much-loved Burger King classic, The Chicken Royale. We're really proud that the newest addition to our vegan menu; The Vegan Royale, is stamped with the Vegan Society trademark, which gives our guests confidence when dining with us that our cooking methods are both tested and transparent." Vegan Trademark Standards The Vegan Trademark is the authentic international vegan standard and is managed by The Vegan Society; the charity that created the word 'vegan' back in 1944. Our dedicated and experienced vegan team check each product application against the below criteria, working with manufacturers and suppliers across a range of fields to ensure that each product meets the highest vegan standards. The Vegan Trademark is renewed on a yearly basis to ensure we have the most up to date information on all the products we certify. Animals The Vegan Society understands the word 'animal' to refer to the entire animal kingdom. That is all vertebrates and all multicellular invertebrates. 'Animal' can refer to a species or an individual; and is used as a noun or an adjective, as required. Unless otherwise stated, it usually means non-human animals. Animal ingredients The manufacture and/or development of the product, and its ingredients, must not involve or have involved, the use of any animal product, by-product or derivative. Animal testing The development and/or manufacture of the product, and its ingredients, must not involve or have involved testing of any sort on animals conducted at the initiative of the company or on its behalf, or by parties over whom the company has effective control. Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) The development and/or production of GMOs must not have involved animal genes or animal-derived substances. Products put forward for trademark registration that contains or may contain any GMOs must be labelled as such. Kitchen and hygiene standards Any dishes that are to be labelled vegan must be prepared separately from non-vegan dishes. At a minimum, this means thoroughly washing surfaces and utensils before using them for vegan cooking. We strongly recommend obtaining a separate set of cleaning utensils for this purpose. We ask for the awareness of the risk of cross-contamination from non-vegan sources in your kitchen or production line, and that the Trademark holder takes all reasonable and practical steps to eliminate this. Registering with the Vegan Trademark Our experienced officers will guide you through the four-step process of registering your products with the Vegan Trademark. Select 'Get in touch' below to get started, you can also call us on 0121 523 1730 (select option 3). If you have an update to a product already registered with us or would like to add more products to your portfolio, select the 'Get in touch' tab and fill in the form. Registration guide Get in touch FAQ Step 1 - Start your application Click 'Get in touch' and provide your company information Get a quote If you are unsure, you can always ask a question. Step 2 - Review and pay You are allocated a Trademark Officer Pay for services Complete product documentation Step 3 - Audit review Trademark Officer checks the products ingredients Work with your officer on any queries Products approved Step 4 - Finish registration Sign and return the Licence Agreement Receive your Certificate of Registration Use the Vegan Trademark on your packaging and in your marketing Use our Marketing Toolkit Who can apply for the Vegan Trademark? We register any company that produces vegan-friendly products. We aim to make the Vegan Trademark accessible to everyone whose products fit our specific criteria. This includes products containing no animal ingredients, vegan processing aids used in manufacturing, and ingredients that have never been tested on animals on behalf of the manufacturer. Why register with the Vegan Trademark? We offer a unique product checking service, with years of experience, to ensure that your product’s vegan claim is valid and authentic. As the charity that coined the term vegan, we are the experts in this field. Our Vegan Trademark holders benefit in a multitude of ways. From credible brand awareness, market insights, and access to the vegan community to discounted advertising opportunities, social media promotion, competitions, and product exposure at events. How do I register with the Vegan Trademark? Our experienced officers will guide you through the four-step process of registering your products with the Vegan Trademark. Select the 'Apply now' tab to get started or if you need some help, choose the 'Ask a question' tab. Do you approve companies or products? The Vegan Society sees excellent value in registering products instead of companies. We've found that it encourages companies to further develop and improve the labelling on vegan options in their wider portfolio of products. By encouraging the development of vegan options, and improving the labelling on suitable products, we have helped to make a vegan lifestyle even more accessible, appealing and often more affordable, too. In turn, registration further promotes 'vegan' as a household name. It is important to note that The Vegan Society does not endorse whole companies. We only register individual products. Often, companies will also sell products that contain animal-derived ingredients in their ranges. We encourage all individuals to make informed choices about companies that they wish to support. How long does the Vegan Trademark licence run for? We offer the options of 12, 24 or 36 month licences. Supermarket licences are usually set at 12 months to support the high turnover of products. How many products can I register with the Vegan Trademark? As many as you want! There's no limit. How long could Trademark registration take? Please allow between 30 and 60 working days. This is dependent on the complexity of your application and the efficiency of communication channels. If you have any deadlines, please let us know and we will always do our best to work with you to meet these. We are happy to work directly with your suppliers on the registration. Vegan Trademark Blogs and news Vegan Trademark standards Vegan Trademark events FAQs Vegan Trademark insights hub Trademarked products search What’s Next for Vegan Beauty? How innovation, ethics and sustainability are reshaping the cosmetics industry. (Read More) Cruelty-Free vs Vegan: Why the Vegan Trademark is the gold standard in beauty With over 35,000 certified beauty products, the Vegan Trademark is the gold standard in ethical cosmetics. (Read More) Sign-up for our newsletter Join our newsletter to receive monthly competitions, offers and information on all things vegan. Join Twitter Facebook Google Plus You Tube Instagram Contact Us Media About Us Site Map Privacy & Cookie Policy Jobs Reg. Charity No: 279228 (England and Wales) and SC049495 (Scotland) | Company Reg. No: 01468880 and 12377572 (England and Wales) | VAT Registration No. 361 7274 92 Copyright © 1944 - 2022 The Vegan Society Reg. Charity No: 279228 Company Reg. No: 01468880 Copyright © 1944 - 2025 The Vegan Society News News Blog Events Past events Submit an event Competitions Media Press releases Statistics Treatment of animals Worldwide growth of veganism Environment and sustainability Business and food sales The Vegan Trademark Health Beauty and household Fashion and textiles Families and children Spokespeople Market insights Vegan insight panel Plant milk market Meat alternative market Go Vegan Definition of veganism Why go vegan? Go vegan for animals Go vegan for the environment Go vegan for your health How many animals would I save? About the Veganalyser The honey industry How to go vegan Meal planning Take the Vegan Pledge Pledge testimonials VeGuide App - Go Vegan the Easy Way Get Involved Become a Member Campaigns Play Fair with Plant Milk Our campaign work so far Plant milk discrimination Share your experience of plant milk discrimination Help us change these discriminatory initiatives Conscious Choices Live Vegan for Less Blogs Recipe Hub Cost Comparison Research Catering for Everyone Vegan and Thriving Vegan & Thriving Recipes The Facts What Health Professionals Say Get Involved Thriving stories Perfect pairings Vegan Vote Climate Emergency Grow Green For campaigners For policy-makers For farmers Veganuary Vegan on the Go Planes Trains Make more medicines vegan The Future is Vegan Donate Donate Today Leaving A Gift In Your Will Giving in Loving Memory Raise funds Run for The Vegan Society Walk for The Vegan Society Collection tins Fundraising ideas Shop ethically with our affinity partners Vegan and Thriving 77 Challenge Volunteer Volunteer Roles Volunteer Profiles Apply Community Network Grants Grant application form FAQs Working with the media Join our newsletter Our work with policy makers Our Manifesto for Veganism Planting Value in the Food System Fix food and farming What should our food strategy look like? How We Influence Policy COP27 Policy Briefing Climate Crisis Research Research News Research Advisory Committee Researcher Network On the Pulse Webinars Publications Research Day 2024: Vegan Pasts, Presents and Futures Empathy Index International Rights Network About the IRN IRN Blog What rights do vegans have? Veganism in the workplace Currently experiencing problems? International Vegan Rights Conference 2024 Veganise your town Business Discount list Wholesale opportunities Offer a competition World Vegan Month Lifestyle Nutrition and health Nutrition overview Nutrients Protein Calcium Iron Vitamin B12 Omega-3 fat Iodine Selenium Zinc Vitamin A Vitamin D Vitamin K VEG 1 nutrition FAQs What Every Vegan Should Know About Vitamin B12 Life stages Pregnancy and breastfeeding Under-fives 5-10 year olds 11-18 year olds Older adults Bone health Vegan Supplementation Medications Allergen labelling Nutrition Network Fuelling an active lifestyle Vegan and Thriving Recipes Fashion Vegan shoes Vegan tattoos Food and drink Sandwich and wrap fillings Vegan-friendly options in UK chains Vegan on a budget Shopping Trademark search Lists of vegan items in UK supermarkets Social Travel Publications and video The Vegan magazine Advertise with us Books Leaflets Family Vegan-Inclusive Education School Lesson Resources Vegan-Inclusive Education Resources Resources for vegan families Visiting animal sanctuaries Teen Hub The Vegan Pod General FAQs Vegan Trademark Blogs and news Vegan Trademark standards Alternatives to animal testing Vegan Trademark events Past events FAQs Vegan Trademark insights hub Trademarked products search Shop VEG 1 Vegan Supplements Gifts & Accessories Donate now Donate Join