Organisation: AKEPA
URL: https://thesustainableagency.com/blog/sustainability-certifications-and-ecolabels-guide/?
Page Title: B Corp certification

What is B Corp Certification? Criticisms & Benefits | 2025 Home About Work Services Digital Strategy Branding & Design SEO & Growth Marketing AI for Sustainability Paid Search & Ads Marketing Localization Sustainability Training Sustainability Blog MAKE AN ENQUIRY Home About Work Services Digital Strategy Branding & Design SEO & Growth Marketing AI for Sustainability Paid Search & Ads Marketing Localization Sustainability Training Sustainability Blog MAKE AN ENQUIRY Blog - What is B Corp Certification? Share Sustainability Certifications What is B Corp Certification? Akepa on February 18, 2025 Buying nectar low, selling honey high, getting all your mindless drones to do all the work while you buzz around wearing a tiny little necktie? That’s a bee corporation and, while very sustainable, it’s a very crowded market and usually requires you to be a bee. So if you’re a human reading this, you’re out of luck. However, a better option for humans in business is to consider becoming B Corp certified. What is a B Corp? Think of a B Corp as being to business what Fair Trade is to bananas. It’s a public commitment to “meet the highest standards of verified social and environmental performance, public transparency, and legal accountability to balance profit and purpose.” It’s saying to the public ‘we’re trying to be better, to reduce harm across the environment, society, and in business and we’ve got the certificate to prove it’. It’s about shifting the focus away from profit and towards purpose. Unlike some other initiatives, there’s an independent body that assesses whether a business meets the right criteria to make that claim. B Lab is a not-for-profit organisation that awards B Corp status to for-profit businesses and it doesn’t seem to give it out too hastily. There are brands that you would expect to be B Corp certified like Patagonia but also brands that are less obviously connected to the world of sustainability like The Guardian Media Group and Ben & Jerry’s. Note that B Corp is different from Benefit Corporation. Why be B Corped? Why bother? Of course, you can be a sustainable business without being B Corp certified but in a world where “…the majority of Generation Z (54 percent) state that they are willing to spend an incremental 10 percent or more on sustainable products, with 50 percent of Millennials saying the same” a certification means that your customers don’t have to just take you at your word. It gives them the peace of mind that your business is legitimately doing something to make the world a bit better. And aside from the potential commercial and marketing benefits, it can create a movement. If enough businesses get certified it can become an expectation. In time, it may start to look like a big mark against a business if they’re not certified, which may raise questions about why they’ve not yet been accredited. If it means that they have to change their working practices, then all the better. It can also attract the right kind of talent to your business. More and more graduates are ethically minded, wanting to work for organisation who are doing good, so having the B Corp seal of approval can be a big tick for new recruits. Are there alternatives? Yes and no. You can follow these tips and choose from an array of other certifications to confirm your commitment to an aspect of sustainability or decide to use other ways to meet the same B Corp goals. We decided to address our corporate emissions and that’s accredited by ClimatePartner. Still, these approaches differ a bit from becoming a B Corp, which is about the balancing of profit and purpose overall. It’s not just about one element and it’s not just about climate change. In a way, it’s more about ethics. How do I get accredited? There are a few steps to go through to become B Corp certified. First, you’ve got to qualify as the right kind of business. B Lab ask that you generate the majority of your revenue from trading and compete in a competitive marketplace. They don’t generally allow registered charities or public bodies to apply but apparently do take each registration on a case-by-case basis. If you qualify, you need to take an online assessment. This is a long questionnaire that asks about 7 key impact areas*: Purpose & Stakholder Governance Fair Work Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Human Rights Climate Action Environmental Stewardship & Circularity Government Affairs & Collective Action You must meet minimum performance requirements across each area. Do that, and you’re onto the next step – certification. This is where a B Lab staffer will meet with you virtually to go through your answers, ask further questions and confidentially review documentation that can back up your claims. And finally, you’ve got to pay. There is an initial verification fee and then an annual certification fee. B Lab runs a sliding scale of fees depending on the size of your business. However, even at the lowest tiers the overall fees run to several thousand dollars per year (or pounds / euros etc.). It’s fairly expensive. And crucially, certification only lasts three years, after which you’ll need to go through the process again to prove that you’re keeping up the good work. As of June 2024, all updated paperwork needs to be submitted six months before the recertification date. *New standards are being rolled-out in 2025 and these are the new impact areas, which have been amended and increased from 5. The requirement of an overall score of 80 is also being changed to a performance-based system. Are there downsides? Not especially. Make sure that you give serious consideration to your motivations before applying. Becoming B Corp certified needs to be more than a PR move. Only one in three companies that submit for certification will actually certify. Is your business ready to have its practices rigorously examined?