Organisation: EU Parliament
URL: https://www.europarl.europa.eu/topics/en/article/20201208STO93327/the-impact-of-textile-production-and-waste-on-the-environment-infographics
Page Title: circular economy waste framework page

Carriages preview | Legislative Train Schedule The Commission tabled a proposal for a revision of the waste framework directive to reduce waste, including food waste, and the environmental impact of waste management on 5 July 2023. Concerning food waste, the proposed directive introduces binding food waste reduction targets to be achieved at national level. By the end of 2030, EU countries would have to reduce food waste by 10% in processing and manufacturing, and by 30% (per capita), jointly at retail and consumption levels (restaurants, food services and households), compared to the amounts generated in 2020. Within two years of the entry into force of the proposed directive, EU countries would need to review and adapt their food waste prevention programmes required by the Waste framework directive (WFD) as revised in 2018, in order to attain those targets. Regarding textiles, the amending directive proposes to introduce mandatory and harmonised extended producer responsibility (EPR) schemes for textiles, textile-related and footwear products across all EU countries, with eco-modulation of fees. It also sets requirements to ensure the management of textile waste in line with the waste hierarchy, including provisions to stop the practice of exports of waste disguised as being done for reuse. The European Economic and Social Committee adopted its opinion on 25 October 2023 (rapporteur Zsolt Kükedi, Diversity Europe - GR III / Hungary). In Parliament, the proposal was referred to the committee on Environment, Public health and Food safety (ENVI), with Anna Zalewska (ECR, Poland) as rapporteur. The Committee adopted its position on 14 February 2024 by 72 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. Concerning food waste, MEPs want to increase the 2030 binding reduction targets from 10 % to 20 % in food processing and manufacturing and from 30% to 40% per capita in retail, catering, food services and households, compared to the annual average generated between 2020 and 2022. These targets should be achieved at national level by 30 December 2030. Instead of a review in 2027 to set a target to half food waste by 2030, the text provides for the Commission to assess the situation and present appropriate legislative proposals to introduce higher targets for 2035 (at least 30% and 50% respectively). Concerning textile waste, in addition to clothing, MEPs included in the list of products falling under the EPR scheme blankets, bed linen, curtains, hats, footwear, mattresses and carpets, including products that contain textile-related materials such as leather, composition leather, rubber or plastic. MEPs also want EU countries to set up EPR schemes 18 months after the directive comes into force and for Member States to ensure the separate collection of textiles for re-use and recycling by 1 January 2025. On 13 March 2024, Parliament adopted its first reading position, closely following the position expressed by ENVI, with 514 votes in favour, 20 against and 91 abstentions. Ttrilogue negotiations with the Council and the Commission started on 22 October 2024. A provisional agreement was reached on 18 February 2025. Negotiators agreed to introduce binding food waste reduction targets to be met at national level by 31 December 2030: 10% in food processing and manufacturing and 30% per capita in retail, restaurants, food services and households. These targets will be calculated in relation to the average annual amount generated between 2021 and 2023. Following Parliament’s request, EU countries would have to take measures to ensure that economic operators having a significant role in the prevention and generation of food waste (to be identified in each country) facilitate the donation of unsold food that is safe for human consumption. On textiles, EU countries will have to establish EPR schemes, through which producers that make textiles available in an EU country would have to cover the costs for their collection, sorting and recycling, 30 months after the entry into force of the directive. These provisions would apply to all producers, including those using e-commerce tools and irrespective of whether they are established in an EU country or outside the EU. A compromise was reached for micro-enterprises - which the European Parliament wanted to exclude from the EPR - to extend this period by 12 months, bringing it to three and a half years in total. At the Parliament’s request, those involved in reuse will not be subject to the EPR. The new rules would cover products such as clothing and accessories, footwear, blankets, bed and kitchen linen, curtains and hats. At Parliament’s initiative, EU countries may also set up EPR schemes for the producers of mattresses. Negotiators also agreed that EU countries should address ultra-fast fashion and fast fashion practices when setting out the financial contributions to the EPR schemes. On 18 March 2025, the ENVI committee approved the provisional agreement resulting from the interinstitutional negotiations. The approval of the text in plenary is currently scheduled for 6 October 2025.