Organisation: EU Parliament
URL: https://www.europarl.europa.eu/topics/en/article/20201208STO93327/the-impact-of-textile-production-and-waste-on-the-environment-infographics
Page Title: circular economy topic page

Circular economy | Topics | European Parliament The European Parliament wants the EU to build a circular economy to reduce waste and make products more sustainable. Circular economy How the EU wants to achieve a circular economy by 2050 Find out about the EU’s circular economy action plan and what additional measures MEPs want to reduce waste and make products more sustainable. Circular economy Circular economy: definition, importance and benefits The circular economy: find out what it means, how it benefits you, the environment and our economy. Waste How to reduce packaging waste in the EU (infographics) Online shopping, take-away food, coffee to go... Packaging waste is growing. Find out how much is being produced and how the EU wants to reverse the trend. The impact of textile production and waste on the environment (infographics) With fast fashion, the quantity of clothes produced and thrown away has boomed. Find out more about the environmental impact and what the EU is doing about it. E-waste in the EU: facts and figures (infographic) E-waste is one of the fastest growing waste streams in the EU and less than 40% is recycled. Check out the facts and figures in our infographic. Sustainable waste management: what the EU is doing Find out how much waste Europeans generate, how they manage their waste and what measures the EU is taking to ensure environmentally-friendly practices. Food waste reduction: what EU actions are there? Food waste remains one of the main obstacles towards achieving a circular economy. Find out more about the Parliament's proposed solutions. Plastic Plastic waste and recycling in the EU: facts and figures While EU countries have been recycling more plastic waste, they also generate more of it. Find out facts and figures in our infographics. Microplastics: sources, effects and solutions Where do microplastics come from and what are their effects? Discover key facts about microplastics and find out what solutions the EU is working on. Plastic in the ocean: the facts, effects and new EU rules Find out key facts about plastic in the ocean with our infographics, as well discover their impact and how the EU is acting to reduce plastic litter in the seas. How to reduce plastic waste: EU measures explained Find out the measures adopted by the European Parliament to reduce plastic waste and boost recycling. Sustainable consumption Stopping greenwashing: how the EU regulates green claims The EU aims to put an end to greenwashing, when companies claim to be greener than they are, and provide more information to consumers on the durability of products they buy. Ecodesign rules to ensure sustainable products on EU market The EU will introduce minimum standards to make nearly all products on its market sustainable, durable and eco-friendly. Sustainable products: "It will be a small revolution for consumers" It’s time for industry to play its part in ending throw-away consumption, says MEP Biljana Borzan. Right to repair: EU action to make repairs more attractive After pushing for it for years, MEPs have adopted legislation that guarantees the right to repair products that can be fixed. New EU rules for more sustainable and ethical batteries As batteries become a strategic market, the European Parliament has adopted new rules to tackle related environmental, ethical and social issues. A common charger: better for consumers and the environment The EU plans to make life easier for consumers and reduce waste by making USB-C the common charger for smartphones and other mobile devices. How the EU promotes sustainable consumption European rules aim to promote a culture of repair, and ensure that products are environmentally friendly and that advertising does not mislead consumers. Other articles Persistent pollutants: definition, effects and EU regulation Find out about the dangers of persistent pollutants and how the European Parliament is acting to reduce their effect on your health and the environment.