Organisation: EU Parliament
URL: https://www.europarl.europa.eu/legislative-train/theme-a-european-green-deal/file-textile-labeling-regulation
Page Title: FullContent

Page Title: Landing page  
Webpage Title: Carriages preview | Legislative Train Schedule  
Webpage Contents: In March 2022 the European Commission presented an EU strategy for sustainable and circular textiles. The strategy is part of the 2020 circular economy action plan and includes in particular actions under the new regulation on ecodesign requirements for sustainable products and the new directive empowering consumers for the green transition directive (see separate files). The new circular economy action plan identified textiles as a key product value chain that requires urgent EU action due to its high use of resources and high impact on the environment. The strategy presents the Commission’s vision for the textile industry and lists a number of key actions the Commission intends to take on. By 2030, textiles on the EU market should be durable and recyclable, largely made of recycled fibres, free of hazardous substances and produced in an environmentally friendly way while respecting social rights. Fast fashion should be ‘out of fashion’ and re-use and repair services would be widely available. The Commission will revise the textile labelling Regulation to introduce specifications for physical and digital labelling of textiles, including sustainability and circularity parameters based on requirements under the proposed Regulation on eco-design for sustainable products. The Commission has carried out a stakeholder public consultation from 19 December 2023 to 15 April 2024, with a view to collecting evidence in relation to the functioning of the current Regulation regarding pre-identified problems and to seek opinions on envisaged solutions. The revision of the regulation, initially planned to be published in the 4th quarter, is delayed. 

Page Title: textile labeling regulation  
Webpage Title: Carriages preview | Legislative Train Schedule  
Webpage Contents: In March 2022 the European Commission presented an EU strategy for sustainable and circular textiles. The strategy is part of the 2020 circular economy action plan and includes in particular actions under the new regulation on ecodesign requirements for sustainable products and the new directive empowering consumers for the green transition directive (see separate files). The new circular economy action plan identified textiles as a key product value chain that requires urgent EU action due to its high use of resources and high impact on the environment. The strategy presents the Commission’s vision for the textile industry and lists a number of key actions the Commission intends to take on. By 2030, textiles on the EU market should be durable and recyclable, largely made of recycled fibres, free of hazardous substances and produced in an environmentally friendly way while respecting social rights. Fast fashion should be ‘out of fashion’ and re-use and repair services would be widely available. The Commission will revise the textile labelling Regulation to introduce specifications for physical and digital labelling of textiles, including sustainability and circularity parameters based on requirements under the proposed Regulation on eco-design for sustainable products. The Commission has carried out a stakeholder public consultation from 19 December 2023 to 15 April 2024, with a view to collecting evidence in relation to the functioning of the current Regulation regarding pre-identified problems and to seek opinions on envisaged solutions. The revision of the regulation, initially planned to be published in the 4th quarter, is delayed.

Page Title: circular economy package  
Webpage Title: Carriages preview | Legislative Train Schedule  
Webpage Contents: The new circular economy action plan identified textiles as a key product value chain that requires urgent EU action due to its high use of resources and high impact on the environment. The strategy presents the Commission’s vision for the textile industry and lists a number of key actions the Commission intends to take on. By 2030, textiles on the EU market should be durable and recyclable, largely made of recycled fibres, free of hazardous substances and produced in an environmentally friendly way while respecting social rights. Fast fashion should be ‘out of fashion’ and re-use and repair services would be widely available. The Commission will revise the textile labelling Regulation to introduce specifications for physical and digital labelling of textiles, including sustainability and circularity parameters based on requirements under the proposed Regulation on eco-design for sustainable products.

Page Title: textiles strategy  
Webpage Title: Carriages preview | Legislative Train Schedule  
Webpage Contents: In March 2022 the European Commission presented an EU strategy for sustainable and circular textiles. The strategy is part of the 2020 Circular Economy Action Plan. It includes in particular actions under the new regulation on ecodesign requirements for sustainable products, the new directive empowering consumers for the green transition directive and the revised Waste Framework Directive (see separate files). The new Circular Economy Action Plan identified textiles as a key product value chain that requires urgent EU action due to its high use of resources and high impact on the environment. The strategy explains how new legislation should tie together to make textiles more sustainable. The agreement obliges manufacturers to provide information concerning spare parts in their website, make them available to all parties in the repair sector at a reasonable price and forbid practices that prevent the use of second-hand or 3D printed spare parts by independent repairers. The provisional agreement keeps the scope of the directive to those products for which the EU legislation lays down reparability requirements (i.e. washing machines, dishwashers, refrigerators, or vacuum cleaners). 

Page Title: right to repair  
Webpage Title: Carriages preview | Legislative Train Schedule  
Webpage Contents: On 22 March 2023, the Commission published a proposal to introduce a new ‘right to repair' for consumers, both within and beyond the legal guarantee. The proposal wants to ensure that more products are repaired within the legal guarantee, and that consumers have easier and cheaper options to have technically repairable products repaired when the legal guarantee has expired. The new proposal is meant to strengthen the demand side by promoting repair in the after-sales phase. Parliament called on the Commission to grant consumers a “right to repair” by making repairs more appealing, systematic, and cost-efficient, whether by extending guarantees, providing guarantees for replaced parts, or better access to information on repair and maintenance. 

Page Title: EPRS report 2022  
Webpage Title: Textiles and the environment | Think Tank | European Parliament  
Webpage Contents: The amount of clothes bought per person in the European Union (EU) has increased by 40 % in just a few decades, driven by a fall in prices and the increased speed with which fashion is delivered to consumers. Clothing has the fourth highest impact on the environment of all categories of EU consumption. The production of raw materials, spinning them into fibres, weaving fabrics and dyeing require enormous amounts of water and chemicals, including pesticides for growing raw materials such as cotton. Consumer use also has a large environmental footprint, owing to the water, energy and chemicals used in washing, tumble-drying and ironing, and microplastics shed into the environment. Less than half of used clothes are collected for reuse or recycling when they are no longer needed, and only 1 % are recycled into new clothes. The European Commission laid out its vision for the textiles sector for 2030 in the March 2022 EU strategy for sustainable and circular textiles. The Commission has proposed a regulation on ecodesign requirements for sustainable products and a directive on empowering consumers for the green transition.

Page Title: EPRS report 2020  
Webpage Title: Textile workers in developing countries and the European fashion industry: Towards sustainability? | Think Tank | European Parliament  
Webpage Contents: As fashion becomes increasingly globalised, garment and footwear production has shifted to low-wage, mostly Asian countries. Thanks to lower manufacturing costs, clothes have become increasingly affordable for European consumers. The ultimate victims are factory workers, toiling long hours in harsh and sometimes dangerous conditions, for wages that barely enable subsistence. With employers reluctant or financially unable to invest in safety, many have died in industrial accidents. Decent work has become a priority for the United Nations, the International Labour Organization and other international organisations. The EU supports decent work, for example through its international trade agreements. 

Page Title: EPRS report 2019  
Webpage Title: Environmental impact of the textile and clothing industry: What consumers need to know | Think Tank | European Parliament  
Webpage Contents: The amount of clothes bought in the EU per person has increased by 40 % in just a few decades, driven by a fall in prices and the increased speed with which fashion is delivered to consumers. Clothing accounts for between 2 % and 10 % of the environmental impact of EU consumption. The production of raw materials, spinning them into fibres, weaving fabrics and dyeing require enormous amounts of water and chemicals, including pesticides for growing raw materials such as cotton. The European Parliament has for years advocated promoting the use of ecological and sustainable raw materials and the re-use and recycling of clothing.